The Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) Prof. Suleiman Elias Bogoro, has commended the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration for his commitment to transforming the education sector in Edo State. While commissioning TETfund Special High Impact Intervention Projects (T-SHIP) in Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, Prof. Bogoro said the governor’s decision to appoint Prof. Abiodun Falodun as the Rector of the Edo State Polytechnic has changed the fortunes of the institution. According to him, “A lot of unprecedented progress has been recorded since Prof. Falodun took over the leadership of the institution. The school, which hadn’t done convocation in almost 20 years, has held two convocations under your watch. “TETfund and the National University Commission (NUC) are happy with the transformation in the education sector in the state. We commend the governor on his commitment to developing the sector and we are ready to continue to support and work with Prof. Falodun, the state and the institution to record more progress”. Governor Godwin Obaseki said the T-SHIP projects will contribute to the growth of the polytechnic, assuring that he would complement deploy resources to complement the contribution of TETfund to the development of the institution. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Edorodion Oye Erimona said the lecture halls and the workshops would provide students a conducive learning environment and the right tools to learn. Prof. Falodun, hailed the Federal and State Governments for the support given to the institution which is responsible for the feats recorded, noting that TETfund intervention in the institution has contributed immensely to its infrastructural development. He said the TETfund projects were approved by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016 and work commenced on the projects being commissioned in November 2018. Falodun said teaching and non-teaching staff of the Edo State Polytechnic have benefited from TETfund intervention, especially in the area of research, noting, “I commend President Buhari for his commitment and support towards the development of tertiary education in Nigeria as the commissioning of TETfund projects in the institution has changed the outlook of the  Polytechnic.” He continued, “I really appreciate the goodwill of Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki and his commitment, support for vocational and technical education in the state. His impressive efforts at improving the business environment in the state has continued to attract investors and the Edo State Polytechnic has also benefited from these gestures.” The TETfund projects commissioned include T-SHIP lecture theatre for School of Engineering; a building for the School of General Studies; Workshop for the Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Workshops for Civil Engineering and Mechanical Engineering. 