The Commission of Inquiry set up by the Edo State Government to probe the activities of the Colleges of Education in Ekiadolor and Igueben; Michael Imoudu College of Physical Education, Afuze; College of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi, and the College of Agriculture, Agenebode, has uncovered N76 million fraud at the Michael Imoudu College of Physical Education in Afuze. The Chairman of the commission and former Edo State Head of Service, Mrs. Gladys Idahor, said in line with the terms of reference of the Commission, the Bursar and Provost of Michael Imoudu College of Physical Education, Afuze, between January 2009 and June 30, 2019, were found wanting for not being able to provide receipts and vouchers for their financial transactions and expenditures amounting to N76, 000,000 for the period under investigation. Testifying before the Commission, Mrs. Abiola Olabisi, who was the bursar of institution between 2004 and 2015, said she recorded her financial transactions and expenditures in a notebook, and at a point, she fell ill and was bedridden, adding that during that period, rainstorm destroyed the roof of her office and consequently damaged the documents in her office. The Provost of the College between 2009 and 2016, Dr. Patience Isokpehi, testified that the notebook was destroyed by rainstorm. The Registrar of the institution during the period under review, Mr. John Akhigbe, and the current acting Bursar of the institution, Mr. Ifijeh Ojo, also testified before the Commission of Inquiry. Idahor expressed dismay over the findings of the Commission, noting that in her 32 years of service, she has never heard of such incident. The Commission was constituted to examine the finances of the institution (including receipts and expenditure) and determine whether they were in accordance with the laws setting up the institution and rules and regulations guiding the public service. It was also charged to examine the administrative structure of the institution in line with the laws establishing them. Also, the Commission’s terms of reference include to examine the mode of employment and promotions in the institutions with the view to determining whether due process was observed and to investigate any other matter that may be incidental to their tasks. 