Residents of Citiview Estate built and managed by Propertymart Real Estate Investment Limited have protested against the company’s nonchalant attitude towards maintenance and estate management. The estate was flooded following the rains and opening of two dams in Ogun State which left it partially submerged with residents finding it difficult to access their homes. Residents alleged that sandbags erected through communal effort were forcibly removed prompting the residents to embark on a peaceful protest to Propertymart’s Magodo office on Wednesday November 6, 2019, to call attention to the horrible condition in the estate which had received scant attention from management of Propertymart. The flooded estate is posing health challenges to residents. The estate is stinking on account of rodents and fishes which have died in the stagnant water as well as human waste which has contaminated the water. Propertymart’s management had failed to take any remedial action despite persistent calls by long suffering residents who have been at the mercy of the flood. The road leading to the estate had failed leaving residents stuck inside or outside until emergency action was taken to staunch the flood with sand bags purchased by the communal effort of residents. Aggrieved residents also took opportunity of the protest organised under the aegis of Citiview Residents’ Association to convey other grievances that included non-provision of title documents, delays in repair of failed roads within the estate as well as the broken perimeter fencing that is leaving residents vulnerable to attacks by bandits and marauders. In another development, management of Propertymart represented by its managing Director, Deji Fasunwon granted a television interview in the evening following the protest during which he claimed that residents had been given their title documents while alluding that water did not get into ground floor apartments. His assertions have been condemned by residents as insensitive and disingenious. 