By Emma Okonji Nigeria’s 4G LTE broadband service provider, Smile Communications Limited, is now offering double the value on their existing 30 days data plans at more affordable prices, which comes as 100 per cent increase in data volume. Courtesy of the new ValuePlus data offerings, the broadband service provider has assured new and existing customers of the best bargains in service quality and rendition. According to Smile Communications, customers on the Smile network will instead of the old offer of 2GB at N2,000 will now have 5GB at N3,000. For 3GB that was priced at N3,000 consumers will now get 7GB at N4,000. Similarly, instead of 5GB at N4,000 customers will now get 11 GB at N5,000 and in place of 7GB at N5,000 Smile now offers 15GB at N6,000. There are also other packages that have transformed the old 10GB at N7,500 to 21GB at N8,000 as well as 15GB at N10,000 to 31GB at N11,000. The Ag Managing Director of Smile Nigeria, Akin Alayoku, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the main objective of the ValuePlus data plans was to give double value at more affordable prices to its customers. According to Alayoku, the offerings were unprecedented in the range of the data plans on offer and unsurpassed in the value that will accrue to the customers who will take advantage of the offerings. Applauding the initiative, Alayoku explained that the new improved data plans as a package were as robust as they are versatile. Each of the offering is tailor-made for both the individual and corporate users. He urged forward-looking customers and prospects alike to embrace any of their preferred offerings and savor the benefits of double value. Alayoku assured that Smile would continuously innovate to beat existing market benchmark all in a bid to provide products that would serve customer’s best interest in the present turbulent market landscape. He restated that Smile’s vision and mission is to be the broadband provider of choice and to enable its customers to benefit fully from the internet world for data and voice. “Smile will continue to bring value to its users as a long term strategy and bring explosive growth in mobile data usage. We will continue to innovate to meet the demands of users where mobile data is becoming a must-have that impact our daily lives and continuously exceed customers’ expectations,” he said.