The Gatekeepers, a biographical work featuring 20 Nigerian Editors, columnists and media leaders, and Nigerian Journalism: 160 Years of Advancing Accountability, Promoting the Public Interest and Speaking Truth to Power, are set for public presentation on Tuesday, December 17. A statement issued on Sunday by Posterity Media’s Founder/CEO, Mr. O’Femi Kolawole, said the two books, published by Posterity Media, will be presented at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos at 11am. According to the statement, while The Gatekeepers, celebrates the inspiring contributions of editors to democracy and public accountability, Nigerian Journalism, a series of essays and articles by renowned Nigerian journalists and stakeholders, proffers ideas and insights on how to improve Journalism practice in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. Some of the editors featured in the books include Mr. Olusegun Adeniyi, Chairman, Editorial Board, THISDAY; Mr. Mike Awoyinfa, veteran newspaper chief and former MD/Editor-in-Chief, The Sun; Mr. Dare Babarinsa, Editor-in-Chief, Gaskia Media Limited; Mr. Tokunbo Adedoja, Digital Director, THISDAY; Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, immediate past editor, The Nation; Mr. Eze Anaba, Editor, Vanguard, Mr. Don Okere, Editor, Daily Independent; Mr. Debo Abdulai, Editor, Nigerian Tribune; Mr. Seye Kehinde, Publisher/Editor-in-Chief, City People; Mr. Azuh Arinze, Editor-in-Chief, YES International Magazine;  and Mrs. Juliet Bumah, Editor, Sunday Telegraph, among others. The statement said the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, would be the Chief Host and Special Guest of Honour at the presentation ceremony which would be chaired by veteran journalist and former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba. “Editors, journalists and Nigerian media practitioners generally deserve strong commendation for their service to our nation despite the challenging environment they operate in. However, beyond the accolades, this historic project of commemorating 160 years of Nigerian journalism is to further inspire the media as the fourth estate of the realm, to do a better job of advocating good governance for the betterment of all citizens while also consistently holding public officials to account for their stewardship,” Kolawole stated. Kolawole added that all featured editors will receive the Special Posterity Media Gatekeepers Award for their patriotic contributions to Journalism and Development in Nigeria while invited guests, including members of the public who intend to be part of the presentation ceremony, are expected to be seated by 10:30am.