In fulfilment of the promise to stimulate productivity among youths to contribute to the state’s budding economy, Governor Godwin Obaseki has provided a 500,000-funding grant each for 20 tech start-ups in Edo State to expand their businesses. The funding was made available through the Edo Startup Fund (EDSUF), an initiative of the governor to develop highly sustainable and innovative businesses through galvanising the local start-up ecosystem in the state. Focal Person, Edo Social Investment Programme, Miss Osayuwamen Aladeselu, said EDSUF is one of the programmes of the Edo State Social Investment Programme through which Governor Obaseki intends to channel the energy of Edo youths to build sustainable businesses. She said 20 start-ups were presented with cheques of ₦500,000 each during a programme at the South-South Innovation Hub, in Benin City, Edo State capital. At the presentation of cheques, Commissioner of Wealth Creation, Cooperatives and Employment, Hon. Felix Akhabue, urged the beneficiaries to use the opportunity provided by the governor to expand their businesses. Programme Manager, EDSUF, Mr. Oghosa Enobakhare, said the agency will monitor the performance of beneficiaries going forward and provide necessary support to boost sustainability. The beneficiaries include Edogiawerie Uwa Robinson of Leadership Plus International; Nwabueze Chidi Ayana of Paybyana Limited; Aideloje Stanley Ojeagbase of Pro School Guide; Osahon Okoh of Upskillz.Co; Obasi Chinyere Felista of Chilista Services; Ihueghian Friday of Findac Integrated Resources; Yoh Jennifer Timipre of Nuna Premium Resources; Aienloshan Omoikhefe of Gas Nownow Limited; Idedevwo Omoefe of Philid Agro Limited, and Ogunnubi Simeon of Pengage Technology Limited. Others include Lisa Onuwabhagbe for Medopera Enterprise; Osayi Tres Omokaro of Eco-Connect Portal; Erhabor Fona of Nano Door; Moses Vincent Ogianyor, of Space Getter Solution; Soares Oladamola of Gloph Concept; Osawaru Nekpen Precious of 24/7 Smart Wash; Esse Ekunwe of Feet Extra; Akhimiona Clinton of Ctrek Technology Hub; Iyamah Ehijie of 24/7 Lab Test, and Okoduwa Odion Paul of Igneiss Global.