By Bennett  Oghifo The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter has become a bestseller in major markets around the world with over 20 years since its first production at the Düsseldorf plant in Germany (1995), according to a statement by the automaker. Building on its success and global appeal, the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter continues to dominate the vans segment and it is the choice vehicle for the transportation industry in Nigeria. New units of the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter are currently available at Weststar Associates Limited. In response to the growing and diverse needs of the Nigerian transport industry today, and in an attempt to provide value suited for passengers, drivers and fleet owners, Weststar Associates Limited, Authorized General Distributors of Mercedes-Benz Passenger Cars and Commercial Vehicles in Nigeria is happy to announce the arrival of more units of Mercedes-Benz Sprinters. Already selling fast, the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter 324 KA comes with features like fuel efficient petrol engines, high-performance roof air conditioners, electrical sliding doors, reverse camera and 14 – 19 seats depending on customers’ preference. The exterior of the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter 324 KA comes with a radiator grille frame in the vehicle body colour, 16-inch steel wheels with 18-hole design, daytime running lamps which make it possible for other road users to identify the vehicle faster in the daytime and the electric sliding door on the side which enables comfortable boarding and exit for passengers. The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter puts great emphasis on comfort in its interior with features like the high-performance roof air conditioner, seating with adjustable backrest, interior LED illumination, wood flooring, interior design with black Tunja fabric, 14 – 19 seats depending on customers’ preference, Audio 15 multimedia system, instrument cluster with pixel-matrix display, 3-point seat belt and a locking glove compartment with considerable stowage space. With regards to performance, the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter 324 KA is equipped with a M272 petrol engine with 190 kW (258hp) power output and 5900 rpm torque; the engine is also coupled with automatic transmission. This fits perfectly with the requirements of Nigerian roads. Other key features include Crosswind Assist which detects track offset caused by strong crosswinds on-time and helps the driver to remain in their lane. The adaptive brake lights with their conspicuous flashing which help significantly prevent the threat of rear-end collisions, ABS – the Anti-locking Brake System which ensures that a vehicle remains steerable even in the event of emergency braking, ESP which stabilizes the speed and movement of the vehicle during bends by selectively braking one or more wheels and reducing engine torque if required, and PARKTRONIC which through a series of ultrasonic sensors strategically placed around the vehicle, accurately measures the distance between the vehicle and other objects during parking to prevent collisions. Speaking on the new units of the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter, Mr. Mirko Plath, CEO, Weststar Associates Limited commented; “The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter’s global appeal is one that is recognized by businesses and transporters in the Nigerian market. It is our utmost goal to ensure that our customers get a product that is able to attend to the challenges they face on Nigerian roads and most importantly add significant value to their businesses.”