Keystone Bank Limited has signed a major sponsorship deal with Nilayo Sports Management Ltd, the organizers of Valuejet IAU African Championship Remo 2019, Nigeria’s first ultra-distance race. The Managing Director of NSML, Bukola Olopade, said yesterday that: “Valuejet IAU African Championships is a trendsetter, the ultra-race is setting an excellent example for ultra-running on the continent, ultra-runners from all across IAU member countries will be visiting Nigeria to compete in the African Championships. “Keystone Bank, a bank that values excellence has chosen to partner with us to make history together, the bank recognizes the importance of athletics in the development of the country and this sponsorship will go a long way in contributing to the success of the event” “In other developments, a financial institution and real estate giants are on the verge of committing to both headline sponsors and real estate partners for the Abuja City International Marathon, this goes to show the commitment of the private sector in Nigeria to grow sports and encourage wellbeing’’ The 50km ultra-distance race will be held on December 7, 2019 at Sagamu, Ogun State. Greatly supported by the Ogun state government and Valuejet Nigeria, the ultra-race will also feature a 5Km Fun Run open to everyone. Other sponsors include Valuejet Nigeria, SevenUp Bottling Company and Aquafina. Registration is free, as interested participants can register on https://remointernationalultrarace.com. Keystone Bank, one of Nigeria’s premium banks operates with best practices and offers leading solutions and services to its clients and associates. The bank is known for convenient and reliable banking solutions that make banking a seamless experience. Ultra-distance race also called ultramarathon is longer than the traditional marathon length of 42.195 kilometres or 26.219 mi. The ultra-race is the first African Championship in IAU’s 35 years history. The race is set to open a new stage of development in ultra-distance running in Africa.