Adedayo Akinwale The Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has expressed shock over comments credited to the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, describing it as ‘unpleasant’. The Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu,  in a statement issued by his Special Adviser (Legal), Mr. Oyorima Idahosa, said that the development was the first time, since 1999, an aide of the National Chairman of the PDP or any political party for that matter, has ever insulted or castigated an elected member of the National Assembly; and for no reason. Elumelu said, “The caucus is indeed surprised that at a time other leaders and critical stakeholders of the PDP are working hard for solutions to move the party forward, the National Chairman is rather detailing his aides to castigate party member and make unguarded comments on critical party matters.” He stated categorically that indeed such comments by the National Chairman, at a time like this, further inflames apprehensions that he was acting on the behest of certain external forces who are pursuing personal interests at the expense of the party’s unity. Elumelu added, “While the PDP members in the caucus, as loyal and dedicated members of the party, will not join issues with the person of the National Chairman, he is however urged, as a leader, to be more circumspect in the manner he addresses issues relating to the party and her members in the media.” “It is even more saddening that at this time other leaders of our party are concerting efforts to ensure our victory at the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections, those vested with piloting the affairs of our party are more interested in creating distractions and division within our fold.” Ndudi noted that if the National Chairman needed to be in the media on the issue of the minority leadership in the House, such opportunity should have been used to explain why the National Working Committee (NWC), which he chairs, has failed to act on the report of the three committees set up by the party to investigate this and other issues relating to the National Assembly. Elumelu restated that he and his colleagues remain loyal and dedicated members of the PDP, and equally called on the NWC to weigh its actions, in the interest of fairness, justice, and equity in line with the democratic ideals of the party, the rules of the National Assembly and provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).