Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said criticisms of his declaration of Rivers State as a Christian State cannot stop him from affirming the reality. This is as he declared that he remains Rivers State Governor because of the intervention of God who dislodged forces of darkness who were primed to rob the state of his mandate on March 9. Speaking during the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Holy Ghost Rally at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Sunday, Wike said he owed no apology for the declaration. He said: “Anytime I have the opportunity, I repeat the declaration with authority and I owe nobody an apology. I am standing on solid Authority. Rivers State is a Christian State.” Describing himself as a living testimony of God’s blessing, Wike said: “Nigerians are aware of what happened on 9th March, 2019. If anyone says he does not believe in God, that event of March 9 should make you believe God. “But for God, the enemies would have taken over the state. I thank the Church for standing firm. They prayed for God’s will to be done and God’s will was done. But for your prayers, I won’t be here as Rivers State Governor. “ He commended the Redeemed Christian Church of God for their sanitation programme, tagged “Pick A Thrash “. “If we have all churches embark on sanitation, our state will be cleaner. We will support this programme financially and we shall donate three vehicles to the Church for the programme,” he said. Wike said that God had used the General Overseer of RCCG to bless Rivers State, stating that the annual Holy Ghost Rally has been a blessing to the State. General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, said everyone needs help and that the best source of help is God. He said: “No matter how influential and powerful, everyone needs help. Everyone needs help and the best help you can get is from the Almighty God. “ He prayed for Wike, Rivers State and her people. The Pastor in charge of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Belemina Obunge, announced that the second phase of the Church’s Environmental Sanitation Programme has commenced. He expressed gratitude to Wike and the Government of Rivers State for the support over the years.