Segun James Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday presented a record budget of N1.168 trillion to the Lagos State House of Assembly for approval in the 2020 fiscal year. The budget is higher than the 2019 appropriation bill by 34 per cent. According to the governor, capital expenditure is expected to gulp N723.75 billion while recurrent expenditure is N444.81 billion, giving a capital to recurrent ratio 62:38 percent. Sanwo-Olu disclosed that the proposed budget will be funded by a projected revenue inlay of N1.071 trillion and a deficit amounting to N97.53 billion. “This, in our view, is strong for development. We have placed an increased focus on wealth creation where we will take deliberate steps in courting a partnership between our people and various development institutions. “In line with this, we have provided N11.8 billion as counterpart funds in preparation for various social impact schemes. In addition, we have made provisions for N7.1billion this year, to provide for industrial hubs, parks, graduate internship programmes and virtual markets for artisans. This is in support for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which are the engines for both economic and employment growth. “It is equally proposed that a total of N167.81 billion of the recurrent expenditure shall be applied towards personnel costs and other staff-related expenses. This represents 22.02per cent of the proposed total revenue, which is within the acceptable wage policy of 25per cent of total revenue, and includes a provision for the new minimum wage”, he explained. The governor further explained that the budget deficit of N97.53 billion would be financed with both internal and external loans. “Since revenue generation is the spine of any budget, this budget supports investment in our revenue generating agencies. This budget seeks to aggressively invest in and develop our education, health and other physical infrastructure sectors. Although our capital spent on works and infrastructure was just N31 billion as at September 2019, as against the 2019 budget proposal of N78 billion, it is our intention to spend N115 billion in 2020,” he said. The governor noted that education would see a capital budgetary allocation of N48 billion, an increase of 60 per cent over the 2019 provision of N30 billion. “We must improve the standard and relevance of our education outcomes to our industries. We will work together with our local governments to strengthen early child education and teachers’ training/administration, leveraging technology. “Similarly, in healthcare, we have provided for a capital expenditure of N33 billion, compared to the 2019 budget proposal of N21 billion. We will ensure that our primary health care institutions remain active and attractive to the primary health care needs of our people. Lagos belongs to us all; we will continue therefore to drive partnerships with the private sector in promoting health services within our institutions. “Given the perennial challenges of flooding in the metropolis, we have tripled the capital budget provision to tackle this from N3 billion in 2019 to N9 billion in 2020,” he added. Sanwo-Olu stated that wider consultation was made in the three senatorial districts, in addition to taking memoranda and feedback from stakeholders’ meetings organised by members of the House within their constituencies, which were also attended by cabinet members. He further noted that the 2020 budget would be supported by a performance management system that would ensure that, by December 2020, the state should achieve an optimal budget implementation when compared with previous years. “This is in line with our commitment to transparency and accountability in the management of public finances.”