The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has advised state governors who claimed that they cannot implement the consequential adjustment as a result of the N30,000 new minimum wage to stop spending money on frivolities. The union said this in a statement jointly signed by TUC President, Quadri Olaleye and Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi, yesterday in Abuja to mark the Muslim Holiday. Although the organised labour said that it was not willing to cause more harm because of the state of the economy, it said that it may be forced to act if the governors do not perform. “That the economy is ailing and the organised labour is not willing to cause more harm. However, we may be forced to act if the governors do not perform.” The labour leaders called on Muslim faithful to abide by the teachings of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), which they said bordered on piety, charity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence, among others. According to the statement, if Nigerians read the books and live by their tenets the country will be a better place, adding that the problem of the country has never been the issue of religion. It lamented that the unity the people once cherished was no longer there because of politics. “At this time of the country’s national life it has become very imperative for all Nigerians irrespective of their religious background to cooperate with the progressives in the country to transform and make the country fulfill her manifest destiny. “Until we uphold the above stated virtues with a view to overcoming our current national challenges we cannot achieve much as ineffectiveness, mediocrity, backstabbing and impunity have become the order of the day. “There are too many absurdities in our clime. The unity we once cherished is no longer there because of politics,” the statement said. The labour leaders called for peace in Bayelsa and Kogi states during November 16 elections in the states. “Elections should not be a do-or-die affair. The enforcement officers must be neutral; and carry out their duties without bias. “They should remain committed to the unity of the country and ensure that the programmes of the federal government are actualised,” the statement added.