Rainoil Limited in partnership with the Nigerian Tennis Federation (NTF) will begin its 2019 Rainoil Tennis Open Tournament from November 29th to December 8th, 2019 at the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja, Lagos. The tournament will feature the 64 men and top 32 women that will begin their campaign from the qualifying draws and another 64 men and 32 women from the main draw. According to the Group, Executive Director of Rainoil Limited, Mrs. Godrey Ogbechie, “Rainoil has been sponsoring tennis for over 10 years now with the Rainoil Tennis Open and this competition is our contribution to both youth and sports development using Tennis as the platform. The competition brings members together in a friendly atmosphere and gives them the opportunity to gain bragging rights and improve on their rankings.” The finals for the men and women’s teams will take place on Sunday December 8, 2019 with winners in the male and female categories going home with a total grand prize of over N5, 000, 000. Rainoil Limited is an integrated downstream oil and gas company with over 20 years business experience. A prominent player in the Nigerian industry, the company’s operations span across the downstream value chain i.e. Petroleum Product Storage, Haulage/Distribution and Retail Sales. Our primary products include Petrol (PMS), Diesel (AGO), Kerosene (DPK), ATK (Aviation Turbine Kerosene) and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG). Also speaking during the press conference, the ; Board Member of the Nigerian Tennis Federation-, Mrs. Funmi Adako expressed a profound appreciation to Rainoil Limited for choosing to sponsor Tennis tournament She described the initiative as a very commendable one as it has a great chance of helping the youths discover themselves and be creative in their approach to sports. She also urged the participants to make good use of the opportunity noting that she is convinced it would have great impact in their lives. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Sports secretary Lagos Country Club Mr. Segun Aluko thanked the Rainoil for sponsoring 2019 Rainoil Tennis Open tennis tournament being hosted by Lagos Country Club (LCC). According to him ‘’We are the foremost family club in Nigeria and are proud to host the only clay-court tournament in 2019. LCC Tennis has the largest number of junior players when compared to any other recreational club in Nigeria and this tournament provides a great platform for the continued development of tennis in Nigeria.