Nume Ekeghe The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria Patrick Akinwuntan, has said the bank is set to support the Nigerian movie industry to project everything good about Nigeria.
Akinwuntan, who spoke at the premiere of the movie ‘The Bling Lagosians’ in Lagos recently, said Ecobank was determined to support the creative industry as they are most suited in the task of reinventing the Nigeria of our dreams. He also added that the support was in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) vision to support the creative industry through a financing initiative
Akinwuntan, said Ecobank is passionate about Africa and its cultural renaissance, and its partnership with Bolanle Austen-Peters, a renowned African culture promoter, sits perfectly with the Pan African brand. Further he stated that the bank would continue to leverage its digital offerings to facilitate a more seamlessly connected Africa.
According to the bank Managing Director, through its flagship products EcobankPay and the Ecobank Xpress ecosystem the bank will remain in the forefront as key enablers of digital payments across the continent. As part of the partnership, Ecobank handed over the sum of N.5 million to the best dressed person at the premiere, being the climax of the ‘Eko for Show’ dress code for the event. Guests were encouraged to dress spectacularly to win cash prizes sponsored by EcobankPay. EcobankPay, is the lifestyle digital payment and collections service of Ecobank Nigeria, had been designated the payment solution for the premiere of the much anticipated movie. EcobankPay is a convenient digital QR code that enables payments using the mobile phone, without the need for a plastic card. The uniqueness of the platform is that it has MasterPass, MVisa and Mcash embedded in the merchant identity QR Code. This enables each customer to transact across the three platforms not minding the bank cards they are holding. ‘The Bling Lagosians’ is a story that centres on the lifestyle of a Lagos family that is presently living in their past glory. Although, they are not as wealthy as they once were, they still want to live that lifestyle they once used to.