Samuel Fasua Newly formed International Christian Conscience Initiative (ICCI) at its meeting in Lagos yesterday, urged President Muhammudu Buhari to urgently attend to the need of road users in the country. At a press release arising from its emergency meeting yesterday, the body, in a statement by its national president, Prof. Olakunle Macaulay, expressed concern about the “insecurity, intolerance, banditry, and cases of insurgencies across the country.” Welcoming President Muhammadu Buhari and the lawmakers, the ICCI said there should be no pretension as to the porous situation in some Nigerian communities. The association, composed by Christian leaders worldwide, said it was pained that despite assurances that the country was safe for the common man, the reverse was the case. In a statement on Saturday, signed by its national chairman, Prof. Olakunle Macaulay, the ICCI stated, “Leaders must talk less about politics but concentrate on proffering solutions to insecurity, poverty, immorality, intolerance, banditry, insurgencies and several allegations.” Lamenting the worsening insecurity situation in the country, the group lamented, “It is now difficult for the common man who cannot fly in a plane to travel by road.” Referring to the recent ordeal of some road passengers on the Ife-Ilesha road in Osun State, the ICCI urged President Muhammadu Buhari to “be personally be involved. The association, at its inaugural meeting, urged Christian leaders to desist from interpreting the Bible out of context. “The Church is a platform to teach the Word of God; build morals of the people and inform Nigerians about social and political activities and their concerns”, it said, adding. “It should not be misused by Christian leaders for their selfish purpose.” However, the group took exception to Christian leaders going to politicians to fan their ego, noting, “Christ did not preach it this way.” “Christian leaders in Nigeria should help to give meaning and purpose to human existence, nurturing loving relationship, and seeking equality and striving for purpose,” the statement added. Meanwhile, at the ICCI meeting were also clerics such as Archbishop (Prof.) Chidi Ezima of the International Christian University, Lagos; Pastor Daniel Iloh of the Soul-Winning Ministry, and Elder Dipo Macaulay of City Gates, a Church in the United Kingdom, among others.