A leading browser developer, Opera, has presented the State of Mobile Web 2019 report, which gives a detailed look at the digital landscape of the African region. The report reveals that in Q1 2019, the Opera browsers and standalone news app were used by nearly 120 million internet users in Africa and by more than 350 million people globally. Also, the State of Mobile Web 2019 shows that Opera experienced a user growth of more than twenty-five per cent over a one-year period. The Head of Marketing and Distribution at Opera, Jørgen Arnesen, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said, “We are thrilled to see that our mobile browsers and news app have grown by 25 million monthly users in the last year in Africa. The new Opera News app has led this positive growth, as well as the introduction of new features to our mobile browsers such as a built-in VPN and crypto wallet. The successful partnerships Opera has with major smartphone manufacturers in Africa have also contributed to the massive growth.” According to the new report, mobile browsing is one of the most popular activities among African Internet users. For example, in South Africa, nine out of ten people use their mobile browser every day, an activity they prefer over the use of other applications. “On average, Africans using Opera spend more than 30 minutes browsing on a daily basis. 31 per cent of browsing sessions of people, who use Opera Mini in Africa in Q1 2019, are to social media platform domains such as Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram, followed by search engine websites like Google, and entertainment and sports websites,” the report revealed. In the report also, Opera compares the average prices of mobile data in twenty countries in Africa. The results revealed that the data compression mode in Opera Mini saved users nearly 100 million USD of data cost in 2018. In this analysis, Opera also compares the cost of data in some African countries with the cost of mobile data in India and Germany. The outcome of this analysis showed that South Africans pay six times more per gigabyte of mobile data than Indians. The report takes a look at the trends of news and video consumption across Africa. This includes analysing the usage of its standalone Opera News app, which grew from launch to over 20 million users in a period of one year. The report stated, “Categories like breaking news, local news, and entertainment were the favourites of the users in the first quarter of the year. Video content is also becoming more popular among people who use the Opera News app. The report shows that people spend 50 per cent of the in-app time in Opera News watching videos on Instaclips, the recently added video feature on the news app. “The usage of Instaclips keeps growing since its test launch in December 2018. In Q1-2019, Instaclips registered a total of 122 thousand videos uploaded in different languages such as English, Portuguese, French, Arabic and Swahili.” Arnesen insisted that beyond the development of its mobile browsers and standalone news app, Opera has made major investments in the African region by expanding its services to other technology areas such as FinTech and digital advertising. He added, “The full version of the State of Mobile Web 2019 report is available here. “In 2018, Opera announced the launch of OKash, a fintech solution for micro-lending that quickly got traction among mobile internet users in Kenya.Today, OKash ranks among the most downloaded micro-lending applications among Kenyans and its user base keeps on growing. “In May 2019, Opera announced the introduction of Opera Ads, a new advertising platform that allows media agencies and publishers to run more targeted marketing campaigns across the Opera platforms.”