In what could be referred to as consistent achievement of academic excellence, Greensprings students once again topped the country in the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) exam. In 2016, Honour Olatunji, a student of the school topped the world in Mathematics IGCSE and this year, five students from the school have been announced as “top in country” in five subjects, making it a total of 16 students who have won the Cambridge Outstanding Learner Awards in the last three years. In an event organised by British Council and Cambridge Assessment International Education to celebrate the winners, Agbodesi Imoagene was awarded Top in Country for Physics; Lucas Nelson was awarded for English Language; Raye Oji was awarded for Literature; Toluwalase Awonuga was awarded in Drama; and Titilola Akinola was awarded for Global Perspectives. Asked how he was able to emerge top in English considering the fact that many students struggle with the subject, Nelson admitted that he couldn’t have achieved it if not for God and the excellent English teachers of Greensprings School. “This feeling is wonderful and I am proud of myself. I owe this award to God and Greensprings. The school gave me the platform to succeed and provided me with the best teachers any student can ever ask for. I thank God I was able to deliver and make my school proud.”
Nelson added that apart from the quality learning environment and teachers at the school, he also worked on himself by reading various books from comics to novels. The Deputy Director of Education at the school, Dr. Barney Wilson, who attended the award ceremony, expressed delight about the awards.
According to hum, “Greensprings remains the flagship school in Lagos and arguably all over the world. These awards validate the academic prowess of our students, and I am proud of the teachers who worked through thick-and-thin to prepare the students for this success.” The Cambridge IGCSE exam is an international exam taken by students from 14 to 16 years. The exam is administered at the final secondary school year of various international schools in Nigeria, with the British Council and Cambridge Assessment International Education being the administrators. The Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards is an initiative of the British Council with a primary objective of recognising best performing students and innovative schools.