Greenwood House School, a dynamic Nursery and Primary School in Ikoyi, has emerged the winning school in the Association of Private Educators in Nigeria (APEN)/Grace Schools Senior Primary Spelling Bee Competition. The competition tagged “Super Spellers” had 51 participants from several schools in Lagos and held at Grace Schools, Gbagada, Lagos. Fitrah Adegbite, a 10-year-old Primary 5 student who represented Greenwood House School in the competition defined his achievement as a result of the intense support and training given to him by his teachers at Greenwood House School. He was very happy that his hard work and commitment paid off. Commenting on the student’s performance in the spelling bee competition, Dr. Mrs. Titilola Ekua Abudu, the Co-founder and Administrator of Greenwood House School explained thatthe school is always committed to giving their students the best education. In view of this, the teachers spend quality time preparing the students for competitions like this and the management is highly impressed about the successof the spelling bee. In how the students are prepared for spelling competitions, Dr. Abudu explains, “The students practice at least three times daily. A teacher isprimarily assigned to each student with other teachers to support. They practicefirst thing in the morning immediately they arrive in school till 8:30am. Next, they practice at 10:15am-10:30am and finally at 1:05-1:30pm. Sometimes they spare time after school to train. We applaud competitions like this as they play a role in motivating students to work hard and we are extremely grateful for the opportunity extended to us to partake”. In a similar vein, Greenwood House School has been awarded membership status by the Council of British International Schools (COBIS). COBIS is an organization in service of British International Schools around the globe. This membership indicates total quality assurance and reiterates Greenwood House School’s commitment to all round quality education for students and its dedication to teacher training. The Principal of Greenwood House School. Mr. Ronald Cilliersexpressed delight on the COBIS membership. He stated, “This membership status simply attests to the quality of education that we provide for our students and the opportunities we create for our teachers to excel. We will continue to put our best foot forward in educating our students and providing a solid educational foundation for them “.