…urges new legislators to build on existing foundation The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki has commended the 6th Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), for its outstanding contributions in deepening democratic processes in the state and for supporting the executive arm in delivering dividends of democracy to Edo people. Obaseki gave the commendation while speaking at a dinner organised by the state government for outgoing and incoming members of the State House of Assembly, at Government House, Benin City. He described the 6th Assembly as a progressive assembly, which contributed to positive changes in the state with bills and resolutions passed. “I want to thank you for helping in deepening the tools of democracy. Your effort has assured us that we can really develop our society if we put our hands and minds to the task. I don’t think many governors in the country were lucky to receive the cooperation we got from you,” the governor said. He added: “I want to thank you specifically for the passage of the Anti-Community Development Association (CDA) bill, which has helped us to make the state more business-friendly and to drive development.” He said the quality of work put into the bills sent to the 6th Assembly for consideration was amazing, noting that members of the 6th Assembly have stamped their feet in the sand of the state’s democratic journey. Obaseki urged incoming members of the 7th Assembly to build on the foundation laid by their predecessors in sustaining cordial relationship with his administration, as he runs a transparent government. He tasked the new legislators to work towards having all the laws of the state as Edo laws, against the Bendel laws still in operation, adding that he believed in the independence of the other two arms of government, where the executive arm of government has no control over their activities. Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, said the executive arm of government cannot work in isolation and must always seek the cooperation of the legislature. He commended the 6th assembly for the speedy passage of bills, while urging the 7th assembly to work towards surpassing its predecessor. The Speaker of the 6th Assembly, Rt. Hon. Kabiru Adjotu, expressed appreciation to the state government for supporting the Assembly in contributing its quota to the development of the state. He said the house passed about 71 bills and moved over 200 resolutions. Chairman of the Edo State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), Barr. Anselm Ojezua, and the Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Hon. Paul Ohonbamu, joined in commending the outstanding performance of members of the 6th state Assembly.