The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reiterated his administration’s drive to make Edo State the preferred investment destination in Nigeria, by opening the space for investors to tap the state’s business, tourism and industrial potentials. The governor said this while participating in an 18-hole Golf Tournament organised by JAMZ Golf Group Benin City Tour, at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) Golf course in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Obaseki noted, “The idea is to make Edo State attractive and a magnet for people to come and invest. For a place to grow, you need an infusion of resources, capital and manpower. That is what we are doing at the moment.” He said Edo has a strategic location for investment, noting that his administration will continue to work so that people will be motivated to pull their businesses to the state. According to him, “It is when people come and see things for themselves that they will consider investing in the state. We want to encourage people to come and invest in sports, build museums and enjoy our rich cultural heritage.” The coordinator of the JAMZ Golf Group, Asue Ighodalo, said the group is part of the Ikoyi Golf Club with members drawn from all parts of the country, adding that group is in Edo State to felicitate with Governor Obaseki, and to contribute to the state’s tourism sector. “We have played at the Benin Club Golf Course and just played at the UBTH Golf course and we are impressed with what we have seen,” Ighodalo said. He commended the developmental strides of Governor Obaseki, noting that the group will join hands to support the governor to make Edo State an economic hub. Ighodalo added, “Edo has the potential to be the best state in the country in terms of education, sports and human capital development.” The captain of the UBTH Golf Club, Prof. Gabriel Ofovwe, expressed appreciation to the governor and his friends for taking part in the tournament, which he described as an honour. The captain presented the UBTH Golf Club membership Identity Card to the governor. Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki joined friends and well-wishers in celebrating with the families of the Obasogie of Benin, Chief Eduwu Ekhator and Bishop Eddy Omoruyi Okundaye, as their children; Princess Ehizogie and Benson Otamamwan, were joined in holy matrimony on Saturday.