The Yobe State Governor, Mai Mal Buni, has voiced his anger over frequent attacks by Boko Haram insurgents on his home town, Buni Gari. He also charged the security operatives to be proactive and do the needful. Buni Gari, the birth place of Governor Buni is just about five kilometres from the 27 Task Force Brigade of the Nigeria Army. But the town has suffered more attacks from Boko Haram in the recent times, a development that has become a source of concerns for Buni. The governor, who was in Buni Yadi for the flag-off of the construction of township roads and concrete drainage, took time to visit his home town. He regretted that his visits in the recent times were all for negative events instead of positive issues. While addressing the people, he asked them to support the security operatives in doing their work. But he charged the security forces to do the needful and be more offensive in their operations. While giving an example of the gallantry of troops in Goniri, another town in the local government area that has been adequately protected by the troops despite similar volumes of attack by the insurgents, the governor said: “If Goniri can be fortified then I see no reason why Buni Gari cannot be fortified”. According to him, securing Buni Gari from Boko Haram attacks is like securing the entire Yobe State since Buni Gari is one of the major points that the insurgents infiltrate the state. According to the governor, the statement I am making here is very clear. We are tired of visiting the people and commiserating with them over sad stories of attacks. This is not palatable at all. To me, this is very unfortunate. “We should not always be here on sad stories. We want to be here on positive stories. We have to be proactive. Last time we visited this place, we promised them protection and by the special grace of God, these measures have not been implemented up to this moment so I am drawing our attention to be more proactive. If Goniri can be fortified then I see no reason why Buni Gari cannot be fortified. “Buni Gari is one of the biggest towns in Gujba Local Government Area and we all know that it is one of the points that these Boko Haram uses to infiltrate; so, we have to fortify it. By fortifying Buni Gari, it is as good as you are fortifying the entire state. “As from this point, I want us to take all the measure necessary to ensure that troops are deployed. On our side as government, we will provide all the necessary logistic on our side. “I repeat, we shouldn’t be here on very negative development like I said earlier. Let us mobilised from the police to the military and ensure that Buni Gari is adequately provided with security that is needed to protect them. “I know that the vigilante compliments the efforts of the military and the police. I want to therefore use this medium to call on them to be more proactive. “I am aware that the day the Boko Haram came attacking, no vigilante was let on the ground just like the military and the police. It is very important. “What I know is that, the best way of defense is to be on the offensive. If this is not done then we have to provide protection. My passionate appeal is that the military and the police to do the needful and be proactive in this matter,” he explained.