Shola Oyeyipo in Abuja Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere and its Igbo counterpart, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, have condemned the allocation of ministries by President Muhammadu Buhari, with all nine ministers from the North-west receiving senior positions. Among the six geopolitical zones in the country, the North-west, which consists of Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara states, have the highest number of ministers, all of which received senior portfolios. The president hails from Katsina State in North-west. The nine cabinet members from the North-west include Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa State), who was appointed Minister of Water Resources; Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna State), Minister of Finance; Muhammad Mahmood (Kaduna State), Minister of Environment; and Sabo Nanono (Kano State), Minister of Agriculture and Development. Others are Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano State), Minister of Defence; Hadi Sirika (Katsina State), Minister of Aviation; Abubakar Malami (Kebbi State), Minister of Justice; Maigarai Dingyadi (Sokoto State), Minister of Police Affairs; and Sadiya Umar Faruk (Zamfara State), Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. The National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, wednesday described the appointment of the ministers as an act of “sectionalism on the part of the President.” He said the appointment confirmed the position of critics who accused Buhari of nepotism. “That is next level of sectionalism in your face, and incorrigibility. “There have been complaints about all these things since the first term. “Now, it has been done in super way. So, that is the next level. Welcome to the next level,” he explained. Also speaking on the issue, the National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze, Uche Achi-Okpoga noted that Buhari had repeatedly promised to give the North-West preference in his cabinet. “It is not a surprise. We were not expecting anything less. We have a President that does not mince words. “He stated it in his first tenure that he would not sacrifice those who gave him 97 per cent votes to those who gave him may be five per cent. So, why should we be surprised that he gave juicy and senior positions to his kinsmen? “He has demonstrated it in his body language, speeches, action and everything. “He also said we should not expect him to change. “We will survive him and another president will come who will change things.”