Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City As part of efforts to reduce unemployment rate and create an enabling environment for entrepreneurship to thrive, the Edo State Government through the Edo State Skills Development Agency has distributed smart solar boxes to 22 youths in rural areas in the state. Addressing the beneficiaries at the event in Etsako West Local Government Area, Acting Chairman, Mr. Imanofi Inusa, commended the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki for the training and for providing starter-packs to the 22 Edo youths. He said the governor’s policies “are friendly and people-oriented, noting that it has continued to improve the lives of Edo people.
“I commend our governor for the training and appreciate him for the starter-packs which will enable them to start their own businesses without hassles,” he said. Inusa urged the beneficiaries to properly utilise the opportunity to better their lives, assuring that the council authorities will help monitor youths to ensure full utilisation of the solar boxes. He added: “I would need the names and addresses of beneficiaries so we can join hands with EdoJobs to monitor these youths and ensure they make proper use of these solar boxes.” Member of the EdoJobs engagement team, Mr. Bernard Obassi, said the 22 beneficiaries of the solar boxes are part of the over 100 persons trained in February 2019. Obassi said the state government through EdoJobs had taken advantage of the challenge of poor electricity supply facing the people to train and empower youths to contribute their quota to the development of the state. “We conducted this training in Edo Central and six local councils have benefited. Also, the programme was held in Edo North as six local government areas benefited from the training as well. We have other ongoing training programmes in this axis.” He said EdoJobs has monitoring teams that ensure beneficiaries of programmes of this nature properly utilise the starter-packs they get from the agency. The only female beneficiary, Patience Joseph, expressed delight in participating in the programme, thanking the state governor for his laudable projects across the state. Another beneficiary, Musa Saliu, commended Obaseki for the training and presentation of starter-pack to him.