Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday said the administration is committed to improving the health sector, through the deployment of technology-based approach to ensure quality and affordable health delivery. The governor commended President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, for giving the state the privilege to participate in the competition that enabled the state to source funds from the federal government-facilitated World Bank’s Save One Million Lives (SOML) initiative in which Osun got $20.547 million, having been adjudged number two in the contest. Oyetola spoke while turning the sod of the 120-bed ward and 30 doctors’ quarters at the state specialist hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo. He noted that the administration had on assumption of office commenced work on the revitalisation of nine General Hospitals and 332 Primary Health Centres – one per ward – across the state. He noted that the state has been partnering development partners and is exploring other windows to attract more funds to the state to further deliver quality healthcare to the people. Oyetola appealed to corporate organisations and relevant associations to partner with the state in its efforts to revamp the health sector: “This is a further fulfillment of the resolve of our administration to use health, which experts say is wealth, to power all the sectors of the state to deliver prosperity and good life to the people. “Our revitalisation programme is holistic. It comes with the use of technology to boost health delivery, provision of modern equipment, training and re-training of staff for efficient healthcare. “In order to give prompt vent to this resolve, we executed the flag off of the facilities in Ejigbo (Osun West) and Ifetedo (Osun East) Senatorial Districts barely three months into our administration. Work has reached advanced stages on the two projects. They will be delivered very soon. “We also commenced work on the revitalisation of nine General Hospitals and 332 Primary Health Centres – one per ward – across the State. “We are here to complete the one-per-Senatorial-District revitalisation of hospitals with this expansion project at the State Specialist Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo. This project consists of the construction of a 120-bed ward and 30 doctors’ quarters. “This hospital is the flagship of the facilities under the Hospitals Management Board. It is a multi-Specialist Hospital which offers specialized services in major areas which include: obstetrics and gynaecology, general surgery, radiology, pediatrics, internal medicine, physiotherapy and medical rehabilitation, optical services, medical laboratory services, dentistry, HIV testing, counselling and treatment, TB/leprosy care and family planning services, among others. Our administration has carried out major works on the theatre complex, blood bank building, medical laboratory, trauma centre, hope clinic and the external wall of the hospital. “This year, we have executed six major campaigns and capacity efforts to boost impact and efficiency. These are Maternal, Neonatal and Child Week; Immunisation Plus Days; Exclusive Breast Feeding Campaign; Polio Eradication Campaign; Net Hanging Campaign and Facility Level Training for the Activation of Basic Health Care Provision Fund in Osun. “The State of Osun Agency for the Control of HIV/AIDS (O’SACA) will soon start a project that will involve the introduction of incentives for pregnant mothers who attend ante-natal clinic and have HIV test result.