Birthdays come around once a year, and golden birthdays once a century. In one year, rivers can be flooded, in half a century, oceans are traversed. The looming golden jubilee of Uche Okonkwo, the wife of Fidelity Bank Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Nnamdi, has set pulses racing a couple of months before the D-day. All roads lead to the Okonkwo domain in October, and even though Uche’s husband is not one to make a big show, he is intent on marking his one true love’s day in a befitting manner. Preparations have already commenced for what is sure to be the celebration of a devoted wife. The 50th birthday offers the dynamic and cerebral super banker Nnamdi, a chance to pour out the biblical good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over to show his appreciation for her support over the years. Feelers indicate that the October 26 event has already sprouted misty-eyed anticipation among the glitterati and highest of high society who aren’t miserly with their time when it comes to attending events that have to do with the Fidelity Bank boss.
Not many will forget how the Who’s Who descended on the Fidelity Bank end of year party, and the upcoming event will be no different. A galaxy of dignitaries including business magnates, captains of industry, opinion leaders, politicians, entertainers and distinguished media personalities have already signified their intention to grace the occasion. Nnamdi is however set to favour a more tempered, low key celebration of his beloved wife who has stood by him through thick and thin. Beautiful and cheerful Uche evokes a painting of a serene, soothing landscape. The yang to Okonkwo’s yin, the brilliant woman holds the domestic reins while her husband goes forth to conquer in the banking industry. Nnamdi is able to forge ahead safe in the knowledge that, come what may, there’s a shoulder to lean on and an irrepressible force of womanhood to bolster his resolve to press onwards. Little wonder the MBA Banking and Finance graduate from Enugu State University of Science and Technology treats Uche as a precious jewel in a rare crown that she is. The two are always lovey-dovey when they step out for outings.