Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt  Less than 24 hours after Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, placed a N30 million bounty on wanted notorious suspected cultist, Bobrisky of Gokana, the Nigerian Army has captured him, with Wike confirming that he will redeem the pledge. Speaking during a security meeting with leaders of Rumuolumeni Community at the Government House Port Harcourt, yesterday, Wike thanked the Nigerian Army for capturing the suspected cultist. “The Army has captured Bobrisky of Gokana. I will pay the bounty that I promised to the Nigerian Army. “Anyone who generates insecurity in Rivers State, I am ready to pay any amount to ensure the arrest of that person,” Wike vowed. He called on community leaders to supply information to the State Security Council on criminals in their areas for the security agencies to act frontally to reduce crime. He described Rumuolumeni as one of the flashpoints in the state, where criminals use the waterway as a getaway point.  He urged community leaders to cooperate with the State Government to check the activities of cult groups and insecurity in the area. On the issue of road construction, Wike assured the people of the area that key roads in the community would be constructed by his administration. He said by the end of the month, contractors would be mobilised to commence work on the selected road. “Key roads in the area have been primed for construction. I urge you to have confidence in us that we will continue to develop the area,” he said. He reiterated the proscription of youth groups in the state, stating that any youth body that plan to operate, must first be profiled. Also speaking, Commissioner of Police of Rivers State, Mustapha Dandaura, said almost all communities had been overrun by cultists.  He said security agencies could not watch the situation degenerate. He commended the Rivers State governor for donating vehicles to the security agencies to fight crime, and assured that security agencies would intensify the battle against crime to achieve results. Spokesman of the Rumuolumeni Community, Collins Wagbara, expressed happiness that Wike had commenced the process of constructing key roads in the area. He lauded the Rivers State governor for upgrading a major secondary school in the area. Wagbara assured the Rivers State governor that the community was working with security agencies for the restoration of peace in the area.