All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has  congratulated renowned chartered accountant, foremost entrepreneur and seasoned administrator, Chief Akintola Williams, as he clocks 100 today August 9. He praised Chief Akintola for his years of service to the accounting profession, to Nigeria, the African continent and humankind. A statement by Tinubu said, “Chief Williams excelled throughout his life, distinguishing himself in all walks of life. As first a chartered accountant and then a financial expert in Africa, he set the highest standard of professionalism and integrity. “His important contributions to our nation’s civil service, where he served as an assessment officer with the Inland Revenue, are well known and he is rightly celebrated for his achievements, many of which remain relevant to this day. Upon leaving the civil service in March 1952, he continued his story of unprecedented success establishing the first indigenous accounting firm in Africa, a company that, along with the other members of the big 4 firms, continues to dominate the accounting industry today. Chief Williams served the country in other capacities notably as Chairman of the Federal Income Tax Appeal Commission; Member, Coker Commission of inquiry into the Statutory Corporations of the former Western Region of Nigeria; Chairman, Lagos State Government Revenue Collection Panel, and Chairman, Public Service Review Panel set up to correct the anomalies of the Udoji Salary Review Commission (1975) among others. “His love for humanity and the arts radiated in the associations he belonged to such as the Metropolitan Club, Musical Society of Nigeria (MUSON), African Cancer Centre (ACC) and Nigeria Conservation Foundation (NCE) to mention just a few. Asiwaju described the centenarian aas a true Lagosian who was born, had his elementary education and founded his accounting firm in Lagos from where it spread to other parts of the world. “Chief Williams was born in Lagos in 1919 to the family of Thomas Ekundayo Williams, Chief Williams had his elementary education at Olowogbowo Methodist Primary School, Apongbon, Lagos and later CMS Grammar School, Lagos as well as attending Yaba Higher College, Lagos where he obtained a Diploma in Commerce, before proceeding to the United Kingdom where he qualified as a chartered accountant. The APC leader prayed for continued good health and God’s grace for Chief Williams and his entire extended family.” Tinubu said.  