Eat’N’Go Limited, leading franchisee for No. 1 Pizza company in the world – Domino’s Pizza and its 2 other global brands, Cold Stone Creamery and Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt, is celebrating 7 years of continuous growth since it began operations in Nigeria in August 2012. This anniversary, further throws a spotlight on the company’s success and immense progress in the dynamic quick service restaurant industry in Nigeria. As part of its growth trajectory, the leading QSR brand has remained consistent in the expansion of its services to more Nigerians, providing value and satisfaction for its customers all year round. With presence in Abuja, Port-Harcourt, Lagos, Ibadan, Ilorin, Akure and Enugu, Eat’N’Go has also just recently extended its footprint to Calabar with the launch of a mega outlet in the heart of the city this August. Since its entrant into the Nigerian market, Eat’N’Go hasrecorded significant milestone across all aspects of its business with the delivery of high quality service. In the last 7 years, the brand has grown from 250 members of staff to over 2400 staff members. Increase in number of outlets to 102and currently operates with a N10 billion investment in Nigeria. In the course of its operations in Nigeria, the company has recorded a long list of achievements and awards, most recent of them is winning the QSR brand of the year 2019 and the CEO winning the most innovative CEO award at the Business Day Leadership Awards2019. While commenting on the Businessday Awards, he added “we are particularly honoured to have received this prestigious award. It proves that the hard work and commitment of our team has not gone unnoticed. Since inception, we have remained consistent in our dedication to bringing the best food experience and concepts to Nigerians and Africans. We are inspired by this recognition and will continue in this light”. Speakingon the anniversary, CEO Eat’N’Go Limited, Patrick Mc. Michael revealed his excitement on the organisation’s growth in Nigeria over the years,owning its success to all its stakeholders. He said “Our experience in Nigeria has been tremendously great. Not only have we grown as a company, we have evolved enough to be a huge contributor to the Nigerian economy as well as giving back to the society. We will like to say thank you to all of our loyal stakeholders whose impact and contribution has proven priceless to us as a company’’. Within its 7 years in Nigeria, Eat’N’Go has invested significantly in human capital development, contributing greatly to Nigeria’s labour market. The organisation as part of its corporate social responsibility,have also partnered with Slum2School Africa, a volunteer-driven developmental organization that provides quality education to disadvantaged children, to send 1000 undeserved children to school in Nigeria.
About Eat’N’Go Eat’N’Go is Nigeria’s master franchisee for the Domino’s Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery and Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt brands. Renowned for being a master deliverer of high quality food & services, Eat’N’Go has established 102 stores in Lagos, Abuja, Oyo, Ogun, Ondo, Kwara, Enugu, Uyo and Rivers states. The company continues to expand its presence in key markets by fusing company goals with new strategic development goals.
Eat’N’Go is dedicated to bringing the best global food brands and concepts to Nigeria and Africa at large.