*Denies ‘raiding’ ex-gov’s residence By Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Tuesday said it was investigating the administration of former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwumi Ambode. There were media reports earlier in the day of a raid on the Epe residence of the former Lagos State chief executive. But the anti-graft agency in a statement, denied ‘raiding’ Ambode’s residence. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has since early hours of today, been inundated with calls that operatives of the commission raided the residence of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode. “We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors is under investigation, since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. “The commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence”, the statement issued by its Spokesman, Tony Orilade, said. While the commission insisted that it did not ‘raid’, Ambode’s residence, it however did not say in the statement whether its operatives were at the residence of the former governor or not on Tuesday moning. It only said, “whatever the commission is presently doing with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law. “We wish to inform the social media to be circumspect in the reportage of any news with regards to investigation activities of the Commission. “As a tradition, the commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court”. The commission further stated that “the attempt to cast the commission in a bad light is unacceptable as the EFCC will never engage in illegal act. We remain committed to the war against corruption”. While the commission insisted that it did not ‘raid’, Ambode’s residence, it however not say in the statement whether its operatives were at the residence of the former governor or not on Tuesday moning.