The Lagos State Signage & Advertisement Agency(LASAA) has suspended, pending final investigation, the practicing Licence of an advertising firm, Provision Media System Limited, over indecent advertisement around the Lekki/Ikoyi toll gate. A statement signed by the Managing Director of LASAA, Mr. Mobolaji Sanusi, on Saturday, said the unregistered mobile advertising truck which had no valid registration for the current year 2019 was “illegally deployed in engaging in abysmally debasing projection of semi-nude women for several hours around the Lekki/Ikoyi toll gate.” LASAA said a check on its records for the current year 2019 confirmed that the truck with Lagos State plate number APP713XL was not registered with the agency for the deplorable purpose for which it was deployed by the company on Saturday. “We wish to state, without equivocation that, no outdoor mobile advert truck within the jurisdiction of our dear state is licensed to display such crass immorality of the calibre that the owner(s) of this unregistered truck exhibited on our roads over the weekend”, the agency said. The agency warned that “the government of Lagos State, under the leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwoolu, has zero tolerance for any slightest attempt by anyone, under whatever guise, to debase the moral fabric of our dear state. Nobody/company can hide under the guise of engaging in outdoor advertising business to display obscenity that is antithetical to our cherished cultural and moral values.” It added that the full weight of the law, as enshrined in the agency’s extant law, will be meted on the company owning this erring outdoor mobile truck after due investigations must have been concluded. LASAA also assured members of the public that the agency would henceforth scrutinise activities of mobile trucks to forestall a recurrence of such an avoidable obscenity. “The state under Governor Babajide Sanwoolu will not in any ramification condone the use of outdoor advertisement structures, whether static or mobile, to perpetrate illegally obscene activities,” it added.