Mary Nnah Running with a stated mission of using the sport of cycling to empower young people on the Continent and build the next generation of leaders, Sustainable Cycling Foundation (SCF), a leading African not for profit committed to the growth and development of cycling in the continent, has unveiled the ‘Kit and Kin’ initiative. Working in partnership with Access Bank, Cocoon Homes, Kingston Wheelers and Craneburg Construction, the Kit and Kin initiative is envisioned to support the launch of the Pro-Continental cycling outfit, Team Access-Cocoon, Nigeria’s first professional cycling team whilst also serving as a boost to the cycling ecosystem on the continent. Addressing journalists during a press briefing at its head office in Lagos last weekend, a trustee of the foundation, Iboroma Akpana, explained that the future of every country depends on the youth and given the demographic bulge in this segment in Nigeria, the foundation has decided to massively invest in the talents of young cyclists and create opportunities through the sport for them to actualise their potentials both as athletes and as citizens that will be useful to self and society. “We are focused on building a solid foundation for future leaders to maximise their potentials. Working with our partners – Access Bank, Cocoon Homes, Craneburg Construction, Specialized UK, Kingston Wheelers and Sigma sports – the Sustainable Cycling Foundation realised that we can further empower young Africans to create better lives for themselves, improve their communities, and build global recognition,” he said. “Our mission is to connect African youths through cycling, provide opportunities for competition, promote healthy living, and empower generations,” Akpana added. Representing Kingston Wheelers for the initiative, Andy Edwards said: “This is our second year working with the Sustainable Cycling Foundation and we have stepped up our involvement. “The images of last year’s Lagos Crit made a big impact in the UK, with my club Kingston Wheelers and through a feature in the UK’s bestselling cycling magazine Cycling Weekly, on a national level also. “The SCF and its partners demonstrate the vibrancy and talent within the Nigerian cycling scene and the potential to grow the sport not only in Nigeria but across Africa as a whole, and we are delighted to part of this.” Through the ‘Kit and Kin’ initiative, the foundation will provide thousands of items to cycling communities over the next few months to ensure cycling is transformed into a major sport in West Africa. The Sustainable Cycling Foundation remains committed to setting standards for sustainable cycling by adopting innovative practices to build a desirable cycling future for Africa that is founded on clean sports, merit and zero tolerance to corruption. In addition to its support of “five local cycling teams, which it helped establish, the foundation has also established a cycling shop and bike maintenance facility and sponsored several bike races and training camps whilst it continues to make positive contributions to the cycling ecosystem.