Until his recent sack, Mr. Ernest Nwufoh was the admin officer of Operation Clean and Healthy Anambra Brigade, better known as OCHA Brigade, a position he held from its very inception. Following his alleged recent brutalisation and subsequent sack by the  brigade, David-Chyddy Eleke reports that Nwufoh has appealed to the state government to mediate in the matter Nwufoh who spoke to journalists after leaving hospital for treatment said, “He started beating me, just like that, until I collapsed. I couldn’t fight him because he is a US trained fighter. He even seized my phone and threatened to throw my body downstairs, if not for OCHA Brigade Officers who rescued me after I collapsed.” On why such a harmless reply would elicit such attack, Nwufoh said he suspects that the action of the new MD may have been triggered by the fact that he(Nwufoh) did not support him(Okafor) during his quest to head the agency. “Just a week after he was made the MD and Superintendent General, he called me and said there will now be changes in office, that the brigade would no longer condone fraud, and I asked him if there had been any fraud in the agency, and that was all.” Nwufoh said that since after the incident, he has been in hospital for treatment, as he sustained a dislocation, a red eye and blood clot from the beating. “On my return, I went to retrieve my phone which he seized, but was told I had to sign to collect a letter before it could be handed to me, and when I signed and picked up the letter, it turned out he had terminated my appointment. He also deleted a lot of data from my phone.” THISDAY however approached the Public Relations Officer of the brigade, Mr Anthony Agbaefune on the allegations against his boss, but he insisted he does not have the powers to react, saying that his boss would rather speak for himself. Meanwhile, Nwufoh has remained in pain and weeping as besides being down in health has also remained jobless and penniless, while his health deteriorates further. “As I speak to you, I am still having pains all over my body, My doctors have recommended I go for another round of x-ray, but I am combining my drugs with herbal massaging.” Nwufoh who begged the Anambra State governor to intervene in his case, said he knows how hard the agency worked to win him(Obiano), his reelection. He said he had also approached the Secretary to the State Government to complain, but has not been lucky to meet him as each time he went to the office, he was told that the SSG, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu was busy.