Tottenham made the headlines on a busy final day of the Premier League transfer window with deals for Giovani lo Celso and Ryan Sessegnon, but their hopes of signing Paulo Dybala crashed. Across north London, Arsenal also completed moves for Celtic left-back Kieran Tierney and centre-back David Luiz from Chelsea. Manchester United striker Romelu Lukaku’s prolonged transfer to Inter Milan was also completed after the clubs reportedly agreed on a deal that could rise to €80 million. Lukaku arrived in Milan early yesterday, leaving United facing a race against time to find a replacement despite interest in Juventus forward Mario Mandzukic. Spurs chairman Daniel Levy has been under pressure from manager Mauricio Pochettino to build on the progress made on and off the field as Tottenham moved into a new 62 000-capacity stadium and reached the Champions League final last season. They have made just one summer signing so far, with French international midfielder Tanguy Ndombele joining for a club-record fee from Lyon, but all that changed in the final hours of the window. Argentine international midfielder Lo Celso completed a season-long loan deal that will contain an obligation on Tottenham’s part to make the transfer permanent next summer. And Spurs’ long-running interest in England under-21 international Sessegnon was realised in a reported £25 million deal that could rise to £30 million including add-ons. However, a sensational swoop for Dybala reportedly crashed with Juventus unwilling to let the Argentine leave without an adequate replacement, having missed out on Lukaku. Arsenal are badly in need of defensive recruits to shore up a backline that conceded 51 Premier League goals last season to miss out on Champions League football for a third straight year. Tierney travelled to London on Wednesday after the payment structure of a £25-million move from Celtic was finally agreed between the clubs. Luiz is also set for a switch across London to replace departed Arsenal captain Laurent Koscielny, who joined Bordeaux earlier this week, in a £8 million transfer from Chelsea. No more business is expected at Premier League champions Manchester City after they secured right-back Joao Cancelo from Juventus on Wednesday. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp confirmed the European champions would not delve into the market at the last minute after making just three low-key additions in teenagers Sepp van den Berg and Harvey Elliott and back-up goalkeeper Adrian. By contrast, Merseyside neighbours Everton are hoping to complete a host of last-minute deals to add to six arrivals already at Goodison Park during the window. Everton are hopeful of taking Manchester United defender Marcos Rojo on loan and succeeded in luring Nigerian international Alex Iwobi away from Arsenal. Leicester are also set to use some of the £80 million they received from Manchester United for Harry Maguire on Sampdoria midfielder Dennis Praet for €20 million.