Enyo Retail and Supply, a customer-focused, technology-driven, fuels retailing company and THANKU Cash, a technology driven marketing, reward and loyalty company have announced their collaboration to rollout the first of its kind fuels loyalty and rewards scheme at all ENYO stations nationwide. This loyalty scheme christened ENYOthankU enables customers earn points when they purchase 30 litres of petrol and over in a single transaction at participating ENYO stations and these points can be redeemed at over 200 merchants across the country as they are denominated in Naira. ENYOthankU is currently operational at numerous ENYO Stations including ENYO Stillwaters Lekki Lagos, ENYO Olu-Obasanjo Station in Abuja and other ENYO locations across the country with over 20,000 customers currently registered and poised to benefit from the rewards scheme whilst other ENYO locations are due to go on stream over the next few weeks. At participating stations, customers need to only inform the Fuel Advisor serving them of their interest to earn their reward points if they are buying up to 30 litres of petrol and they would be taken through a simple process which takes no longer than 2-3 minutes. Customers would also instantly receive a text on their mobile phone number provided to inform them of the points earned for their just concluded purchase. ENYOthankU is fully funded and backed by ENYO Retail, points earned can be spent at participating bars, cinemas, restaurants and shops all over the country. Customers will also soon be able to use their points to pay for other services like their toll gate costs, electricity bills to mention but a few other innovations under development. ENYOthankU is also available on the ThankUCash mobile app and this allows customers see details of their fuel purchases, vendors where their points can be redeemed, total amounts earned and services which can be paid for using their points. Commenting on this novel solution ENYO Retail’s CEO, Abayomi Awobokun said “ENYO Retail is investing in improving the narrative in Nigeria on the downstream fuels sector and ENYOthankU is worth all the buzz and attention it gets” Abayomi reiterated that over 20,000 people are already registered on the scheme and some have successfully redeemed their points both at ENYO stations and in some cases at other merchants proving that the ThankUCash platform works effectively. He stressed that the customer experience has been very positive and satisfying and believe other fuel’s marketers in the country would soon follow in ENYO’s footsteps by joining them on the ThankUCash platform. Customers to VEHICON; ENYO’s car diagnostics and maintenance service, would soon also be able to claim reward points after patronising VEHICON, in June over 1,500 vehicles were maintained by the 13 VEHICON centres currently in operation, ENYO expected to double the number of operational sites by the end of 2020. Awobokun says ENYO is a trail blazer, he claims that no fuels retailer has a loyalty and rewards scheme like ENYOthankU which is technologically driven and transparent, he adds that there are other tech based innovations in the pipeline from the company to be released later in 2019. ENYO Retail is one of the fastest growing fuels retailing businesses in Nigeria with operations in over 15 states in the country, it is affiliated to Folawiyo Energy and chaired by Mr. Tunde Folawiyo.