Stanbic IBTC, a member of the Standard Bank Group, recently held the 2019 edition of the Stanbic IBTC Employee Health and Wellness week. The event marked the culmination of activities of Stanbic IBTC’s annual Health Week programme, designed to educate and enlighten the company’s employees and the public on issues concerning healthy living and wellness. The 2019 Health and Wellness Week was held across the cities of Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt and IIorin on August 10, 2019, according to a statement from the bank. Speaking at this year’s edition which was themed: “Healthy Mind, Healthy Body – Reloaded”, the Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Yinka Sanni, urged the company’s employees to pay more attention to their mental health, to be more mindful about their lifestyle and to inculcate healthy habits. Giving tips on how to maintain a good state of mental health, the Stanbic Group CEO stressed the need to constantly challenge oneself and reach out to people for support. He said: “You should challenge yourself to do more, learn new skills, look out for innovative and creative ways of doing things and also learn to manage pressure and extend a helping hand to others. There is always somebody that can do with a helping hand around you if you are attentive.” Sanni further advocated the need to take breaks to refresh while also pursuing excellence. “We should take time out to refresh. Be sure to take a 10 day break this year. We should also learn to practice excellence and bring out our very best. I also counsel that we should live in the present”, he added. In her welcome address, the Country Head, Human Capital, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Olufunke Amobi, noted that the company pursues a policy of promoting a healthy lifestyle amongst its staff members. She stated that the Health Fair was instituted in order to make staff members of the company become more conscious of adopting healthier lifestyle choices. She said: “This Health Fair is particularly very important to us because the health and wellness of our staff has a direct correlation with our vision, mission and our existence as an organisation.”