Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano The Managing Director of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Mr. Usman Mohammed, has declared that unless the distribution companies (DisCos) are recapitalised, power supply will remain epileptic. Mohammed spoke yesterday in Kano during an inspection of TCN’s facilities. The TCN chief said due to the slow pace of investment by the Discos, most of TCN’s installations are not properly utilised, making it impossible to improve on power supply. He said the TCN was working round the clock to rehabilitate, replace and ensure adequate maintenance of its facilities across the country to pave the way for effective power distribution and supply by the Discos. Mohammed said: “We have proposed the recapitalisation of the Discos. That is where we believe improvement in the Power sector lies. We are calling on all Nigerians to clamour for the recapitalisation of the Discos. If they are not recapitalised, there is no way they can rehabilitate their existing network. “So, you can see that two feeders here are out because the feeders are weak. Therefore, any time there is rain, those feeders cannot function. “The reason they cannot function is because they were not rehabilitated. This is what TCN is pushing for Discos to do. “On the capacity of power in the nation, TCN is working hard. We have not solved all our problems. So, anywhere we have problems, we have solutions to them. “We are discouraging redundancy across the country and we have achieved a certain level of control over our frequency. We have a spinning reserve with a road network and we are doing all our best to make it work. We have a roadmap which we are following religiously.” He added: “In Kano, I have discovered that most of the transformers, especially the one in Dakata area of the metropolis, are under-utilised. Sometimes, you hear that TCN is not supplying Discos with adequate electricity for distribution. In reality, it is not true. “If you look at the transformers in Dakata, which is 60 KV, you can see that the transformer is idle, apart from the one in the middle. None of them is taking maximum loads. “One of the things we need to propagate is to ask the Discos to invest in their network so that they will be able to take enough loads. As you can see, the implementation of transmission and rehabilitation that we are embarking upon is on course and everything is moving
fine.“In this sub-station at Dakata, you can see that we have 30 MVA, but we are going to replace it with 60 MVA. We are through with the procurement and the installation has reached advanced stage. “So, the line from Kumbotso to Dakata would be re-conducted to put high capacity of conductor so that it can carry twice the current capacity. So, this is what TCN is embarking upon to boost electricity to the DisCos. “With all these efforts from our side without commensurate investment by the DisCos, Nigerians would not feel the investment we are putting in place to improve distribution and supply of electricity to Nigerians. That is why we are asking you journalists to enlighten them to invest.”