The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has assured that disciplinary actions will be meted to those who betrayed the party during the 2019 All Progressives Congress (APC) primary elections in the state.  Obaseki said this while receiving the Report of a committee set up by the Edo State Chapter of the APC to reconcile aggrieved party members after the 2019 primary elections.  The governor expressed appreciation to the committee for helping to review issues involving all the aspirants that participated in the recent APC primaries.  Obaseki called for compulsory monthly meetings across the various units, wards and Local Government Areas (LGAs) that will be attended by Special Assistants and Advisers from the wards.  He assured that he would get across to all the parties involved in the issues raised by the committee and urged them to be proud of the developmental strides so far recorded by the party.  Obaseki assured that the reconciliation exercise will be carried out while promising that stiff disciplinary measures will be meted out to those that betrayed and erred against the party.  Chairman of the four-man Committee, Mr. Theophilus Okoh, during the presentation of the Report to the governor, said the committee visited the three senatorial districts in the state and the local government areas to interact with party members who bought APC expression of interest forms, adding that the aspirants cooperated with the committee members.  He noted that part of the recommendations by the committee is for the party to refund money spent by aspirants to purchase Expression of Interest forms, adding, “In the course of interacting with the aspirants, it was discovered that some of them are intelligent. We advise the government to consider ways of absorbing them into the system.” Okoh stressed the need for the party to look out for causes of frictions so as to proffer lasting solutions to all the issues at stake.  Other members of the committee were Dr. Aisosa Amadasun, Secretary; with Alhaji Shehu Muhammed and Rev. Michael Egharevba as members.