The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has seized a 40 feet container stocked with substandard LPG cylinders worth over N38 million.
The Director General, SON, Osita Aboloma, who disclosed this in a statement, explained that the cylinders failed to meet the safety requirement and as such, poses threat to human lives and property in the country. He stated the need to adhere strictly to standards when dealing in LPG gas cylinders cannot be over flogged.
The Director General warned that it was dangerous to use cylinders of higher capacities like 12.5 kg and above as camping gas where burners are fitted on top of the cylinders. According to the SON boss represented by the Director, Compliance, SON, Engr. Obiora Manafa, cylinders above 6.25 kg capacities like 12.5 kg shall be fitted with 27mm valves (fitted with safety relief device) and piped to a burner via a hose and a regulator. “Having a cooking pot on top of cylinder as high as 12.5 kg stands the risk of tilting over. It is also highly dangerous to subject the high volume of LPG in a high volume capacity cylinder to heat from the cooker that is directly sitting on top of the cylinder,” he added.
He said only 3 kg, 5 kg and 6.25 kg cylinders are used for camping gas and fitted with camping valves, stressing that any cylinder above 6.25 kg used for camping shall be seized and destroyed. The Director General lamented that many avoidable LPG cylinder explosions across the country which had led to wanton loss of lives and properties. He admonished those dealing in the LPG Gas Cylinder and accessories to endeavor to abide strictly by the safety requirements in the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standards, given the potential danger that the substandard cylinders can pose to lives and properties.
He, however, disclosed that efforts had been intensified to subject LPG Cylinders to Laboratory tests and analysis to confirm their conformity, stressing that if these cylinders fail critical safety parameters on construction, performance and markings they will be seized and destroyed. Meanwhile, SON charged local and foreign investors to invest in LPG cylinder plants in the country.
Indeed, the agency said this came on the heels of the recent commissioning of a LPG manufacturing plant in Lagos
He said SON was working with relevant sister agencies to achieve five million metric tonnes of domestic, commercial and industrial LPG utilisation soon. Aboloma said SON was in business to ensure that goods and services produced in the country meet global best standards, while also calling for both local and foreign investments into the sector to bring down importation of LPG cylinders to the barest minimum. He added that investment in setting up LPG manufacturing plants would not only reduce dependence on imports, but also create job opportunities for the nation’s teeming unemployed youths.