In keeping with its talent development strategy, a new set of Graduate Trainees have commenced entry level development programme at the Ecobank Nigeria Academy in Lagos, the bank has disclosed. It stated that the training which was launched in July this year was an intensive 8-week medley of learning interventions for fresh graduates. The first set of 67 Trainees would graduate at the end of the month and would be absorbed into different roles in the bank, a statement disclosed. Speaking at the commencement of the training, its Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, was quoted to have said the programme was in line with the transformation agenda to make the bank the most preferred financial institution in the country, noting the Ecobank would continue to head hunt for brilliant fresh graduates, train them on professionalism and Ecobank culture and inject them into its workforce. He further explained that the various bank’s development programmes were part of its talent development strategy to continue to churn out excellently trained banking professionals at various levels of the industry to feed into her talent pipeline and the banking industry, stating that they are founded on global best practice that prepare the participants for banking careers in positions aligned with their potential, competencies and experience at the entry point of functional pre-managerial roles. According to him, “Our training programmes are our way as a Bank to invest in creating future leaders for the Nigerian banking industry. We are investing in the people to accomplish our vision both as a Bank and a country. The staff of banks must be well trained and knowledgeable so that they can ensure that funds in the banks are effectively deployed,” stressing that for us at Ecobank, we must also ensure that we deliver on our promise as a financial institution of choice not only in Nigeria but the whole of Africa. We, therefore, take the development of adequately trained manpower as a “must do” in striving to achieve our goals,” he stated. He advised the trainees to participate actively in all the training exercises, noting that their future is bright with Ecobank.
According to the Head, Human Resources, Ecobank Nigeria, Gloria Byamugisha, the first set of Trainees at the Academy demonstrated a high level of commitment and orientation towards the banking profession, noting that the training is essentially to improve the financial literacy of participants who may be coming from other disciplines, or who may have non-financial and banking related academic backgrounds.