 Okon Bassey in Uyo, Femi Ogbonnikan in Abeokuta Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto and Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia Governors Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; as well as the Governor-elect of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun and his counterpart in Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, yesterday received their Certificates of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) INEC presented the certificates of return to Emmanuel of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the elected members of the State House of Assembly. The Akwa Ibom State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr Mike Igini presented the certificates to the governor-elect and the 25 members elect of the PDP at the INEC State Office in Uyo. However, certificate of return was not given to anyone from the Essien Udim State Constituency, as the result from the constituency was said to have been made under duress. Essien Udim is said to be the country home of Senator Godswill Akpabio. The REC explained that only the National Chairman of INEC has the finally say on the result of Essien Udim State Constituency as the results from only two wards out of eleven wards were declared. Speaking on behalf of those who received the certificates, Emmanuel dedicated their victory to God and the people of Akwa Ibom State, pledging total loyalty to people of the State. He said their wining was a victory of light over darkness, victory of unity over disunity and victory of good over evil. Receiving his certificate, the Ogun State Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, ascribed his emergence at the March 9 gubernatorial election as the victory for the people of the state. Abiodun said despite the challenges that could have dampened the spirit of the people from exercising their franchise, Ogun residents defied the odds and came out in their large numbers to vote. In his welcome address, the Ogun State’s REC, Prof Abdulganiyu Raji, admonished the Governor-elect to resist temptation to run politics of hatred, and adopt a government for all and sundry. INEC also presented certificates to the Nasarawa State Governor-elect, Abdullahi Sule and his deputy, Emmanuel Akabe, in Lafia, the state capital. Speaking at the official presentation, the governor-elect thanked the people of the state for accepting the will of God, which he said started right from the period of primary elections up to the period of the governorship poll where he became victorious. The electoral umpire also issued certificates of return to Sokoto State Governor , Aminu Waziri Tambuwal; his deputy, Alhaji Dan’Iya Manir and 30 members-elect of the state House of Assembly in Sokoto State. Presenting the certificates, the Supervising Commissioner in Charge of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara States, Hajia Amina Zakari, said the event is historic in the democratic transition of the state. She added that the process used to be peaceful in Sokoto, adding that this time around there was pockets of violence in few places which resulted to the death of one person. On his part, the REC in Sokoto State, Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Musa, said when he came to the state, he promised to conduct free, fair and credible election that would be accepted by all. Reacting, Tambuwal thanked INEC for conducting free and fair election in the state, while also thanking Sokoto electorate for confidence reposed in his administration by giving him their mandate the second time. Out of the 30 House of Assembly members-elect in the state, APC has 16 while PDP has 14.