Nigeria’s seat of power and commercial nerve centre – Abuja and Lagos, have been scheduled to host the maiden edition of the FCV Gladiators Football Camps in April. The Lagos camp will hold at the University of Lagos Sports Centre on April 14 to 19 while the Abuja leg will hold at Aduvie International School between April 21 and 26. The camp, brainchild of Dynaspro Sports Promotion and Advanta Interactive Limited, is expected to give a new outlook to football with special attention to education. According to Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Oluseyi Oyebode, the camp is a departure from the usual football-focused clinics, as the camp would give special attention to the education of the participants. “It is a great beginning. For the first time, we are having a foreign partner that is so keen on education and football; that has been the missing link. We will encourage as many children as possible to be part of the first camp so that they can have the taste of what it takes in proper academy setting. “Children from schools now will know the orientation and the importance of sports and education. “We have a lot of our ex-players and ex-athletes suffering because they were not able to manage their successes, not being able to manage their finances while making the money,” Oyebode stressed. He added: “I think now we have about 20 schools on board, partnering the project in Lagos and Abuja. “Also, there will be mentorship programmes and for the first time, we will have school coaches, coaches from the grassroots having FA certification. That is the greatest value that you can think about, so that we can have the same orientation that an average British coach will have in working with the youth academy. This is going to evolve and help development of football in Nigeria.” For the Director of UK-based FCV International Academy, Martin Harris, the programme would help to give direction to football camp in Nigeria. “The programme is unique because we are not just here to impact football knowledge but also to enhance the knowledge of the children as well. “Also various life skills, team work and everything needed to make the children have better future are going to be impacted to them. These and many more are what the children will enjoy at the camp,” Harris pledged.