The Executive Committee of the South East Council of Traditional Rulers on Wednesday congratulated Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, on his re-election during last Saturday’s governorship election in the state. In the same vein, the workers of Enugu State through the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) also congratulated Gov. Ugwuanyi for his “well-deserved landslide victory” at the polls, stating that the “jubilatory election was a true representation of the wishes of the entire Enugu State workers”. The royal fathers, who briefed newsmen through the Chairman of the Committee, His Royal Majesty, Igwe Alfred Nnaemeka Achebe (Obi of Onitsha), shortly after they paid Gov. Ugwuanyi a courtesy visit at the Government House, Enugu, said they “join the people of Enugu State in thanking God for the peaceful elections that took place in the state”. Igwe Achebe added that the resounding victory Gov. Ugwuanyi recorded at the polls was a re-affirmation of the confidence the people of Enugu State reposed in him “by giving him the mandate to lead them for another four years”. He stated that the victory “shows that his previous four years was done very well”, saying: “We thank God for that and hope that he will build on his achievements in the last four years to give him room for stronger days in the next four years”. The committee chairman disclosed that the traditional rulers were in Enugu for their quarterly meeting where they deliberated and took decisions on issues of great importance to the people of the zone and Nigeria. He thanked the governor for his hospitality and other necessary support he provided towards the successful hosting of the event. The Obi of Onitsha also expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi and other South East governors for their leadership role in closing the “little gap in communication” that had existed among the traditional rulers, in the interest of South East. The Enugu State workers in a congratulatory message by the Chairman and Secretary of TUC, Comrade Igbokwe Chukwuma Igbokwe and Comrade Benneth Asogwa, maintained that Gov. Ugwuanyi’s victory “speaks volumes of your good works in Enugu State”. The body told the governor that “your administration will continue to put smile on the faces of Enugu State workers as you will do more to improve the welfare of workers in the state”. The workers, therefore, prayed God to continue to bestow the governor with “His Divine Wisdom and strengthen you as you carry out this onerous task of governing Enugu State”.