 OVH Energy Marketing Limited, Nigeria’s leading oil and gas downstream Company and licensee of the Oando retail brand, has announced the commencement of a drivers’ training refresher program for 2019 themed Safe Driving – Imperatives for Road Safety and Operational Excellence, aimed at improving drivers’ behaviours and promoting professionalism amongst the participants. This announcement was made at the drivers’ training opening ceremony held on the 18th of March at the OVH Energy Training Centre, Oando Trade Fair Service Station, Lagos-Badagry Expressway. Over 1,200 petroleum tanker drivers in several batches will be trained via the programmein the next seven months. The exercise will acquaint participants with best practices in road safety awarenessgeared atpromoting safer use of roads. The OVH Energydrivers’ training was initiated in 2011 to educate, enhance and improve drivers’ safety, knowledge and foster professionalism in road transport management. In addition, the training ensures that drivers are medically fit and able to comply with road safety regulations. Speaking at the opening ceremony,the Chief Executive Officer, OVH Energy Marketing Limited, Mr. Huub Stokman lauded the efforts of the drivers and remarked that theirs is one of the most difficult jobs in Nigeria which requires a lot of training. He said “OVH Energy is investing in and building capacity in our truck drivers so that they can be more accountable and responsible. Our truck drivers haul over 3,000,000 litres of fuels daily across 20,000 kilometres cumulatively, it is imperative that they are well-trained to secure their lives – so they can return to their families every night, the lives of other road users, as well as the products in transit. We are happy to have FRSC’s support year-on-year because we have the same objective – to keep our roads safe”. “We believe that the knowledge being impressed upon these drivers will ultimately make our roads safer for all”. Mr. Stokman further added. According to the Lagos State Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr. Hyginus Omeje, “this collaboration with OVH Energy is part of our mandate to sustain public enlightenment on the use of our roads and promote stakeholders’ cooperation. Road transportation accounts for over 90% of human mobility and haulage needs in Nigeria and as an agency charged with the responsibility to eradicate road crashes and create a safer motoring environment, we believe that this ongoing partnership with the company will continue to yield the desired benefit”. The FRSC sector commander expressed his appreciation to the management of OVH Energy for its continuous support especially during its ember months’ patrol exercise.