Sunday Okobi Foremost shopping mall in Port Harcourt city centre, Rivers State, Hakarat Mall, has lined up series of activities for people in the state for the upcoming Easter celebration as a way to appreciate its teeming customers. The management stated in a statement made available to THISDAY that it is brewing a mix of vendors, buyers and entertainers in an event tagged: ‘The Easter Trade Fair and Music Festival’ to give back to its customers for their endearing patronage. It noted that Hakarat, as a business that supports young and upcoming artists in the entertainment industry, musicians, comedians, dancers and all manner of entertainers will be on stage at the venue while different registered vendors will have their stands filled with all manner of discounted prices for goods. The Executive Director of Hakarat Mall, situated at the Obi Wali axis of Rumigbo in Portharcourt, Mr. Ken Agala, in the statement yesterday, explained that as part of the activities lined of for the Easter celebration, the children play station in the mall will be manned by trained security guards and minders while the sky lounge restaurant will be open in case parents wish to relax and unwind. “The festival also attempts to showcase the rich cultural display of the Rivers people as different dance troupes will also be featuring with divers music and arts,” he stated. He explained further that the vision and objectives of Hakarat is to meet the different needs of the people by constantly adding and re-adding value to their commitment, love and patronage, adding that “the word Hakarat is a Hebrew word for ‘ Gratitude‘ and this formed the attitude of the management and staff of the mall.” Agala promised a fun filled Easter weekend for all attendees, much better than what they had at the Valentine Traffic Light party in February, adding that it is going to be an unforgettable experience. He said Hakarat being a household name for those living within the area and Port Harcourt generally, the mall which won the 2018 Conglomerate of the year award by the prestigious Orange awards, comprises a well-stocked supermarket, restaurant “with mouth-watering intercontinental dishes, a fantastic bakery, photo studio, salon, spa, a sky and garden lounge all in one facility with top quality products and services. “It’s reputation of being a one-stop mall is empathised on the company’s motto which says: ‘All that you want’. The executive director noted that in a traffic-prone Port Harcourt city where the city hub has become congested, “Hakarat Mall focuses on offering better services around its axis so that those around can have even better value than they can get anywhere else in the state.”