The bands of wedlock are so heavy that it takes two to carry them… sometimes more depending on religious orientation or personal preferences. But there is a man who does not seem perturbed about even offering a hand to carry any wedding band anytime soon; he is Unity Bank chairman, Aminu Babangida. He has got a front row seat to the high drama of his own siblings’ marriages. Having witnessed first-hand how their unions unravelled, he is not in a hurry to put himself in the same situation. Aminu, the youngest son of former military president Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida has rebuffed all entreaties to tie the knot even though he is piling up the years. He is reported to have told whoever cared to listen that his focus for now is on taking Unity Bank, where he was appointed the chairman not too long ago, to the next stage in its evolution. He does not want to contend with any domestic issues that can distract him from this goal which he is pursuing with vigour. Recall that his elder sister, Aisha has had ill-luck when it comes to affairs of the heart. First was the romance with Kola Abiola, son of MKO Abiola, acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, which was truncated when their fathers came into conflict. She was later swept off her feet by Basheer Nalabo Garba, a relative of the Abachas whom she married in 2003. They divorced just three years later. Reasoning that third time might perhaps be the charm, Aisha strutted into the harem of Alhaji Aliyu Shinkafi, then the governor of Zamfara State, only to turn tail and flee several years later, hounded out by hostile elder wives. The case of his elder brother, Muhammed Babangida is not any better. Muhammed’s acrimonious separation from Rahama Indimi, daughter of Borno billionaire, Muhammed Indimi, has not served as an experience worthy of emulation by Aminu. Even Muhammed’s rekindled romance with childhood sweetheart, Ummi Wali, is said to going through a rough patch. Little wonder Aminu Babangida doesn’t want to rush into marriage. Having been twice warned by his siblings’ experiences, he is three times shy. He is playing the long game concerning his marriage and pays deaf ears to anyone who tells him to hurry up.