By Mary Nnah A visionary leadership, high education standard and a well cultured exhibition of globally acceptable values are said to be, the bed rock of a well-developed and morally cultured society, where patriotism, national unity and peace are not compromised by her citizens for any reason. This standard motivated the partnership between Blaugrana International Group owners of Barca Academy and Corona Schools Group at a well-attended stakeholders’ forum, held recently at Corona School, Gbagada, Lagos, where an MoU was officially signed by the organisations involved in the collaboration. The partnership is in furtherance of the ideals, vision and values of a greater Nigerian future, through effective leadership, education and the inculcation of good moral values in the Nigerian child, equipping him or her with all that it takes to make such an individual a legendary leader, a better person, a responsible citizen, selfless patriot, a beacon of light, peace and national unity and an inspiration to others. Chairman, Blaugrana International Group, Mr. Leslie Oghomienor, an alumnus of Corona Schools, expressed optimism that his group’s involvement in the new revolution, helping in the re – engineering of the seriously challenged nation’s youth leadership, education system and the eroded societal values, is an assured approach towards the realisation of a sustainable greater future for a Nigeria, where the Nigerian child yet unborn would be extremely proud of in all situations. Oghomienor strongly believes that through a well-defined and articulated partnership, such as the Barca Academy and Corona Schools initiative, it will be of tremendous value to the overall life and wellbeing of the human society; trusting that the initiative will benefit the Nigerian child more. In excitement, he said that Blaugrana International Group convincingly believes in what she is doing and totally committed and faithful to the idea of discovering and growing leaders and talents who will be of selfless service to their society and self, whenever and wherever opportunity offer itself. He emphasised on the need to increase the momentum of encouraging the girl child education and giving them the enabling environment to learn, play, grow and achieve their goals and life dreams. He also agreed that a child who has the opportunity to learn and develop body, spirit and soul, which can be fully accomplished by the teaching of good values and physical training through recreation, especially football which to get a good result, requires all the senses of the individual involved. “Here the psychology of the child is of great important. This the academy cannot ignore for it is a pivot in the child’s character and overall development”, he added.
Oghomienor explained further that, a society will make progress and prosper when her citizens achieve all round balance, focused and determined to live their individual dreams, not only for themselves but with their country’s interest upper most in their minds. “As a responsible corporate citizen we are determined to ensure that the Barca Academy positive impact is felt. Thus, our Spread Out and Elite 96 Scholarship Projects is opened to exceptionally brilliant and smart children, boy or girl”, he added. Speaking further he said, “‘Our focus is aside education, leadership and sports – physical and psychological development to inculcate in our young persons, high ethical and moral values, grooming them for a total life, where humility, genuine effort, non – competitive ambition, believing that there is more than enough for all, who truly aspire for greatness, respect for all, excellent teamwork and honest sportsmanship.” In his contribution, Bernat Villa, Technical Director, Barca Academy, told the forum that in concert with the other partners the elite institution would not rest until she is able to make a noticeable positive impact in the Nigerian education and sports climes. “This we will conquer, as we continue, in our Spread Out Project and the engagement of international certified technical and sound academic hands. “Thus, we cannot compromise our global standards, one of the reasons for collaborating with Corona Schools and Children International School, all in Lagos. Their facilities are world class. The efficiency, knowledge, skills and attitude of their management team cannot be doubted. We do not expect less. “We have no fear entrusting our children to them. These children we want to catch them fresh and young help develop and grow their cognitive and psychomotive strength and insight that would make them great leaders in future”, Villa noted. In her address, Chief Executive Officer, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adeshina, opined that her institution’s interest in the union is informed by the compatibility of Barca Academy’s mission, vision and core values. Furthermore, she said, “This is solely driven by Corona Schools Group Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, to ensure that the institution is continually helping and supporting the production of excellent, well – rounded and proud young Nigerian patriots, prepared for continuous learning, self-mastery and unfaulted leaders which the country is in dire need. And we are proud of our brought – ups who are abound and doing good works.” She added that, the 63 years old institution with seven schools to her credit is propelled by the zeal to sustain a unique culture of continuous improvement and partnership with corporate bodies and individuals whose intents is for the common good of the human society and the promotion of good will gears towards sustainable national advancement, unity and transformation. ‘This further strengthens our rich corporate social responsibility initiatives, as we create opportunities where children can learn in adverse areas and confidently express acquired leadership skills and exhibit their talent, on world class platforms and standard facilities and be able to pursue any potential they might have,’ Adeshina said.
The Barca Academy promoted by Blaugrana International Group began three years ago with a campus in Surulere, Lagos. She now has three facilities Surulere, Lekki and Gbagada all in Lagos.