Amby Uneze in Owerri In a show of solidarity and expression of gratitude to God, the Imo State Advisory Council of Elders has congratulated the Governor-elect, Chief Chukwuemeka Nkem Ihedioha, on his victory in the keenly contested governorship election. The Council of Elders also congratulated Imo citizens for turning out en mass to vote and standing to defend their votes. The victory, according to the elders’ group, represented the victory over impunity, maladministration, liberation from servitude, poverty, deterioration of moral and societal values for which Imo state was not known for. A congratulatory message signed by Prof. Francis Dike (SAN), Air Cmdr Luke Ochulor (Rtd) and Engr. Charles C. Ugwuh (former Minister of Industries) said, “This victory indeed amounts to a reset for good governance, while we commend the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies for their roles in ensuring a successful election in the state. In the same vein, the Forum of Owerri zone former governorship candidates has commended President Muhammad Buhari, the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and all Imo citizens for a peaceful election held in the state last Saturday. Spokesperson for the group, and former governorship candidate of Reform and Advancement Party (RAP), Mr. Kingdom Okere, in an interview in Owerri thanked President Buhari for providing a level playing ground for a smooth governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. He also eulogised INEC in Imo State led by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof Francis Ezeonu, the State Returning Officer, Prof. Francis Otunta, Vice Chancellor of Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike and all the head of the security agencies and their officers and men for championing credible and transparent elections. Okere, however, commended Imo electorate for shunning desperate and greedy politicians whose interests were to continually put the state in a perpetual bondage. He expressed confident in the governor-elect, Ihedioha, for having all it takes to rebuild the state. In his comment, a prolific Nollywood Actor, Chief Kanayo O. Kanayo, said that the best thing that had happened to the people of the state was the rejection of Okorocha’s son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, and stressed that Ihedioha would remove the shame placed on the state by Okorocha’s administration.