Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The federal government has inaugurated the committee to organise the inauguration ceremony to herald the beginning of a new four- year term for President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration on May 29. The inter-ministerial comittee was inaugurated yesterday by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha. Mustapha, who is the chairman of the committee, noted that the forthcoming event is a reward for Buhari’s exemplary leadership and sincerity, by Nigerians from different ethnic and cultural backgrounds, who gave him a new mandate of four years on February 23. He also tasked the members of the committee to deploy their wealth of experience and leave no stone unturned in delivering on the mandate by making the inauguration ceremony a success. Members of the committee include the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammad and his contemporaries from Interior, Lt Gen AbdulRahman Danbazzau (rtd); Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; FCT, Malam Musa Mohammed Bello; Defence, Maj. Gen. Mansur Ali, (rtd) Health, Prof Isaac Ajewole; Education, Alhaji Adamu Adamu; State (Aviation) Senator Hadi Sirika and the National Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomole. Others are the Inspector General of Police,Mohammad Abubakar Adamu; DG DSS, Yusuf Magaji Bichi; Commander, Brigade of Guards, Brig. Gen. Umar Musa and the Permanent Secretaries (State House), General Services Office and Political and Economic Affairs Office. Oshiomole, who was absent at the inaugural meeting was represented by the Deputy National Chairman of APC, Niyi Adebayo. The SGF said Buhari had approved the constitution of the Presidential Inter-Ministerial Inauguration Committee to plan, organise and execute all approved programmes for the series of activities that would be undertaken on May 29. He also stressed that in the course of the implementation of its assignment, several sub-committees to be headed by the ministers will be constituted. Also for inclusiveness, other members would be drawn not only from the MDAs, but from the APC, the Presidential Campaign Council, the Buhari Support Organisation as well as Women and Youth Campaign Council.