Driver-partners registered on the Uber app, today had the opportunity of engaging with law enforcement officials, health and safety organizations, and members of the local Uber team at a workshop geared towards improving safety and security on trips. The sessions highlighted different topics like where to obtain original vehicle registration details, how to minimize risks and prevent potential accidents while driving, improving wellbeing and stress management for driver-partners, and a thorough run-through of Uber’s in-app safety features. “At Uber, we are committed to safety and are always working to build a better experience for driver-partners,” said Lola Kassim, General Manager West Africa, Uber. It made sense for us to collaborate with relevant safety and security experts, and organizations like AXA Mansard to organize a workshop that provides driver-partners with relevant and useful safety tips. The Driver safety tips are designed to help driver-partners feel empowered to be safe and help them make safe decisions before, during, and after every ride.” Speaking on the safety workshop, O’Yoma Ukueku; Greenlight Operations Manager for West Africa said: “At Uber, we’re constantly working to help make cities safer, and that includes listening to those who protect and serve our communities every day. The workshop was designed to give driver-partners access to knowledge and information facilitated by subject matter experts on a wide variety of subjects that are critical to safety while on trips. As safety is a critical pillar to us at Uber, we are striving to ensure that driver-partners have access to information that improves the quality and safety of rides.” The safety workshop is part of a week-long Safety-Week initiative organized by Uber as a way of amplifying and re-iterating its ‘Safety Never Stops’ narrative of making rides safer and more secure for driver-partners and riders. Sessions at the Safety Workshop were facilitated by safety and security experts and a specialized local team from AXA Mansard. Uber recently announced its new Safety Toolkit which began a phased roll out to over 134 00 active riders and over 9 000 active drivers across Nigeria. The toolkit will introduce new innovative features such as a driver in-app emergency button and speed alerts, which aim to raise the bar on safety, and increase transparency, accountability and peace of mind for all users. 