By Bennett  Oghifo Jaguar has announced two distinctive special edition models for its award-winning F-PACE; the performance-focused 300 SPORT and the feature-packed Chequered Flag. They further enhance the World Car of the Year and World Car Design of the Yearaward-winning F-PACE range, which offers the unrivalled dynamics and everyday versatility customers expect from a Jaguar performance SUV, according to a statement by the automaker. 300 SPORT Special Edition Powered to perform, the 300 SPORT comes with a 221kW2.0-litre Ingenium petrol with all-wheel drive.With400Nm of torque itcan accelerate from 0-100km/h in 6.1 seconds on its way to a top speed of 233km/h. Ian Callum, Jaguar Director of Design, said: “The Jaguar F-PACE has established itself as the ultimate performance SUV. Not only does it combine sports car DNA with the practicality of a larger vehicle, it does so with a great aesthetic. The latest special editions build on this visual appeal by enhancing the model’s sporting character to each create something unique. The F-PACE line-up has something for everyone. The 300 SPORT is identified by distinctive Dark Satin Grey exterior detailing. Starting with the front grille surround, this extends to the side window surrounds, side vents, mirror caps and door finishers, as well as the rear valance. With 300 SPORT badges on the front grille and rear tailgate, it is available exclusively in Yulong White, Indus Silver and Santorini Black. Step inside and the yellow contrast stitching on the instrument panel, centre console and leather seats provide a unique feel to the interior. The 300 SPORT logo is badged on the treadplates, carpet mats and steering wheel and is also embossed on the front headrests. Comfort and convenience features include Touch Pro Navigation, a Meridian sound system and 14-way electric front seats. Jaguar’s 12.3-inch Interactive Driver Display provides a customisable and intuitive driver interface. Customers buying the 300 SPORT will have the option of upgrading the standard specification with a number of additional features. This includes 18-way seats, with the option of heated front and rear seats. Adaptive Cruise Control and Adaptive Dynamics are some of the other features also available. Chequered Flag Special Edition The Chequered Flag is based on the R-Sport model and comes with a distinctive exterior that includes a sport front bumper and striking Gloss Black detailing on the front grille, door cladding, side vents, and roof rails. The Chequered Flag is available in Yulong White, Santorini Black and in the newly introduced colour, Eiger Grey. Inside, the cabin has a seamless blend of luxurious materials and crafted finishes, with features including leather trim, meshed aluminium detailing and Chequered Flag treadplates. Occupants also benefit from a range of features such as 10-way electric front seats, Touch Pro Navigation Pack, Meridian Sound System, reconfigurable 12.3-inch Interactive Driver Display and the Touch Pro infotainment system as standard. A range of 2.0-litre AWD powertrains are available with the Chequered Flag, beginning with the more performance-focused 183kW2.0-litre AWD Ingenium petrol, which powers the F-PACE from 0-100km/h in 7.0 seconds and to a top speed of 217km/h. A diesel option features 132kW and 430Nmand can accelerate from 0-100km/h in 9.0 seconds. F-PACE Range Every F-PACE features a lightweight aluminium intensive construction and driving dynamics that deliver the ideal balance between ride and handling. All-Surface Progress Control enables smooth, effortless traction on low-grip surfaces, while on-demand all-wheel drive and Intelligent Driveline Dynamics deliver optimum performance and capability. The F-PACE’s high torsional stiffness enables its F-TYPE-derived double wishbone front- and Integral Link rear suspension to deliver a truly rewarding driving experience. Torque Vectoring and an Electric Power Assisted Steering system – both standard – further enhance agility and response. The special edition models will be available in sub-Sahara Africa in the third quarter of 2019 with pricing for respective markets available closer to the time. World Car Awards The Jaguar F-PACE achieved double success at the 2017 World Car Awards, scooping the prestigious World Car of Year and World Car Design of the Year titles. Now entering their 15th year, the annual World Car Awards are the number one awards program in the world for the sixth consecutive year based on Prime Research’s 2018 media report. The awards were inaugurated in 2003, and officially launched in January 2004, to reflect the reality of the global marketplace, as well as to recognise and reward automotive excellence on an international scale.