Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Young Progressives Party (YPP) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to recall the Certificate of Return ‘issued illegally’ to the winner of Yenagoa/Polokuma Opokuma and Ekeremor/Sagbama Federal Constituencies of Bayelsa State, over wrongful exclusion of the party’s symbol by INEC. To this end, the party said it had already filed a petition at the Election Tribunal in Bayelsa State, in order to ensure that the commission complies with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Egbeola Martins, demanded the conduct of fresh polls that will be all inclusive in the constituency in compliance with the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) in particular with ballot paper in which the party’s symbol would be included. He stated: “YPP after a careful review of the recently conducted National Assembly elections held on February 23rd, 2019 in Yenagoa/Polokuma Opokuma and Ekeremor/Sagbama Federal Constituencies of Bayelsa State call for the cancellation of same due to breach of the mandatory provisions of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). “The wrongful exclusion of our party’s symbol by INEC after clearance by same to contest in the House of Representatives election in the aforementioned constituencies made it impracticable for our candidates and massive supporters to cast their votes in clear violation of section 44 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), which provides for the mandatory inclusion of the party symbol as adopted by competing political parties on the ballot papers.” Martins stressed that it was upon the strength of this brazen act of illegality that the party called on INEC to “immediately recall the certificates of return issued erroneously to Mr. Stephen Sinikiem Azaiki and Mr. Agbedi Frederick Yeitiemone both of the People’s Democratic Party representing the good people of Yenagoa/Polokuma Opokuma and Ekeremor/Sagbama Federal Constituencies respectively.” He stated, “We demand the conduct of fresh polls that will be all inclusive in the above constituencies in compliance with the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) in particular with ballot paper in which our party symbol and name will be clearly included so as to allow our candidates Mr. Obesi Otasome Benjamin (Yenagoa/Polokuma Opokuma Federal Constituency) and Mr. Fuludu Ebikpolade Vincent (Ekeremor/Sagbama Federal Constituency) the level playing ground to vote and be voted for.”