By Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), a subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said it would continue to develop a robust and sustainable relationship with its over 350 host communities in the country to enhance business growth. The Managing Director of NGC, Babatunde Bakare, gave the assurance yesterday during the official inauguration and hand over of a Basic Health Centre to the Oniparaga community in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. Bakare, who was represented by the NGC General Manager, Support Services, Mrs. Mariam Emmanel-Ate said the wellbeing of the community was paramount to the Social Corporate Responsibility thrust of the company. According to the MD, the company had a Metering Stations located in 11 states in the country noting that by implication, its pipeline transverses over 350 host communities. “We present to you this fully equipped Basic Health Centre as a token of our appreciation and our contribution to the development of Oniparaga Community. “As a company, we shall continue to solicit for your co-operation and assistance in the maintenance of peace and support for our business growth aspiration in the interest of the community and Nigeria in general. “NGC will always encourage and appreciate communities that promote peace, dialogue and understanding in the resolution of issues. This is the hallmark of our community relations engagement process,” he said. Bakare urged the people to make judicious use of the multi-million Naira health facility project. Chairman of Odigbo Local Government, Mr. Tunde Ikumawoyi thanked the NGC and the people of Oniparaga for ensuring that the project materialised.  He assured that the project would be put into proper used by the primary healthcare department of the Council. Also, speaking, Dr. Akanbiemu Francis, Executive Secretary, Ondo State Primary Healthcare Board described the facilities as the best in the Local Government. While appealing to the NGC and the NNPC for a continuous support Francis promised to deploy qualified staff to man the facilities. 