Obinna Chima The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Keystone Bank Limited, Mr. Obeahon Ohiwerei, has resigned from the bank. The bank which announced this, also disclosed that Mr. Abubakar Danlami Sule, has been appointed as acting Managing Director/CEO.
But Sule’s appointment is subject to approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria. A statement from the bank yesterday, that was signed by its General Counsel/Company Secretary, Dr. Michael Agamah, disclosed that Ohiwerei left to pursue other personal interests. The statement further added that the board recognised and appreciated
Ohiwerei’s contributions to the growth of Keystone Bank and the visibility the bank had attained as a brand in the past eighteen months. On the other hand, Sule is a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria with degree in Accounting. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria; an Honourary Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria; a Governing Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria; and an Alumni of both the INSEAD (France) and Wharton Business School in Pennsylvania, USA. He was until his appointment as Acting MD/CEO, the Deputy Managing Director of Keystone Bank Limited. Sule has over 29 years of banking experience with competences in Corporate Banking, Operations, Treasury Management, Credit Structuring, Corporate Planning, as well as possession of very strong relationship management skills. He had also served briefly as the Managing Director of Sterling Capital Limited, the Investment Banking Subsidiary of Sterling Bank Plc in 2009. While at Sterling Capital Limited, he was appointed by the CBN as part of the Executive Management team to turnaround the fortunes of erstwhile Intercontinental Bank Plc. He eventually returned to Sterling Bank Plc as Executive Director in charge of the North and Corporate Banking. He also worked briefly in Standard Chartered Bank Limited before he joined Keystone Bank. “The Board of Keystone Bank has enjoined management and staff of Keystone Bank to join hands with the Acting MD/CEO to build Keystone Bank into a brand that all its stakeholders will be proud of,” it added.