Jurgen Klopp is expecting a “loud and wild” atmosphere when Premier League leaders Liverpool travel to Everton for the Merseyside derby today.
Liverpool thrashed Watford 5-0 on Wednesday to maintain their one-point lead over Manchester City at the top of the table. Both teams have 10 games left to play and Klopp is expecting a tough encounter against Everton. “Of course, the fans of Everton don’t want us to win anything and probably for our fans it’s the same the other way. But in the game, it’s only very emotional and passionate. “I hope it will be like that, that’s how football should be. At Goodison they really support their team, so now let’s go there and use the atmosphere of course. It will be loud, it will be wild, it will be everything – and we have to deliver on the pitch as well.” Liverpool beat their Merseyside rivals 1-0 in December thanks to a last-gasp goal from Divock Origi.
That result means Everton are winless in 18 matches against Liverpool in all competitions.
“It is a special game for both, for the city also, for our fans a special match, for their fans also a special match,” said Everton boss Marco Silva.
“I managed my first Merseyside derby last December and what I felt was a special match for both teams.” This will be the 200th top-flight meeting between Everton and Liverpool, becoming only the second fixture to have been played that many times in the top English league after Aston Villa vs Everton (202). Everton are winless in their last 18 encounters with Liverpool in all competitions (D9 L9), their longest ever such streak against their Merseyside rivals.
Despite remaining unbeaten in their last 16 league meetings with Everton, Liverpool are looking to do the double over the Toffees for just the third time in the last eight seasons (also in 2011-12 and 2016-17). Premier League meetings between Everton and Liverpool have produced more red cards than any other fixture in the history of the competition (21).
Liverpool have scored more 90th-minute winning goals in Premier League games against Everton than any side has against another in the competition (5).
Liverpool have conceded fewer away goals than any other side in the Premier League this season (8).