Ugochukwu Aliogo Maximedia Global Limited, a media independent company with specialisation in media strategy development, planning, channels buying and audit has announced the elevation of three key staff,  Seyi Iwayemi, Isioma Okeleke, and Ekpedeme Ufot Before his elevation to Senior Group Head/Project Director, Seyi Iwayemi was the Group Head, Channel Management, charged with the responsibility for negotiations and media buying. Mr. Iwayemi is a media professional with 19 years’ experience in Marketing Communications and Media Management across the Nigerian market spanning major categories including FMCGs, Oil and Gas, Government Parastatals, Airlines, Financial and Insurance Sectors, Pharmaceuticals and Non-Governmental organisations. He has handled the media buying needs for Access Bank, Wapic Insurance, Emirates, Swipha, Novartis, House on the Rock, John Hopkins University, Pepsi amongst others. He is an Associate Member of Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), Associate Member Nigeria Institute of Management (NIM) and currently the Assistant Secretary Media Independent Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MIPAN) Until her recent elevation to Senior Group Head, Strategic Intelligence Planning, Isioma Okeleke, was Group Head, Strategic Intelligence Planning. Her foray into the advertising industry a decade ago led to her garnering expertise as a media strategist and planner managing key accounts such as Stanbic IBTC Group and Beiersdorf with stints on GlaxoSmithKline and VISA in the first half of her career. She has also managed media projects for HPZ, Access Bank PLC and Unilever Nigeria (Deodorants) and has led the team at Maximedia to win HPZ and Johns Hopkins Centre for Communications Programmes (NURHI 2 & TCI) pitches in recent times. In her capacity as the Strategic Intelligence Planning Unit lead where she provides oversight functions, Isioma strives for continuous value creation and delivery to clients which she believes helps to sustain long term business relationships. She obtained her first degree in Mass Communication from Madonna University, Okija, is a member of the Advertising Practitioners Council (APCON), a certified CRESTCOM leader and an alumna of the prestigious Lagos Business School. Ekpedeme Ufot now heads the Innovations department. In his new role, he will be responsible for driving the agency’s traditional and new media integration with the aim of delivering engaging and effective brand campaigns. In a career spanning over 10 years, he has worked in media planning and buying, outdoor and digital for clients like Guinness, Emirates, Access Bank, Unity Bank, Exxon Mobil, Jiji.ng, Travelstart, Betpawa and many others. His career set sail at SO&U Saatchi and Saatchi in June 2008 before he joined the foundational team at Maximedia Global Limited in April 2011. He holds a B.Sc. in Mass Communication from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; Senior Executive Masters Programme (SEMP) from the Metropolitan School of Business and Management (MSBM, London), amongst several short courses attended, locally and internationally. He is also a CRESTCOM Certified Leader.  Ekpedeme is expected to bring his strategic and creative thinking prowess to bear on his new assignment.  Congratulating the team members on their elevation, the agency’s Managing Director, Mr. Femi Adefowokan commended them for their consistent sterling performances, diligence, hardwork, and focus. He maintained that this is in line with the company’s expansion strategy and charged them to continue to give their best in the new roles and positions while ensuring the promotion of the company’s values.