By Laleye Dipo in Minna Ahead of Saturday’s governorship and legislative elections, the Niger State government has assured its workers of job stability and regular payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities if re-elected. The government has also told various segments of the state that it will continue with the even sharing of dividends of democracy as is the practice in this first term of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. The Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Danjuma Salau, who gave the assurances in Minna on Monday, said government would emphasise internal and external trainings of workers to enhance their capacities, thereby improving their efficiencies and productivities in their various duties. Salau attributed the success recorded in the nearly four years of the administration to the support workers had given to the government. “There is no doubt that the successes recorded by this government in the last three and a half years is hinged on the support workers have given to the administration,” Salau said. He said Governor Abubakar Sani Bello was particularly impressed by the diligence and dedication to duty of the workers, which to a large extent “contributed to the success recorded in the implementation of the transformation agenda of the administration”. “As we continue to strive to make our state one of the most enviable states in the country, we will continue to make the civil and local government services the engine that will drive the growth of the state. “In the last couple of years, the administration has worked very well with the workers. As a result, the administration has witnessed industrial harmony unlike in many states of the country. We hope to continue this collaborative effort in the overall interest of our state,” the commissioner said. Salau said the state and local government services would also be used to reduce the huge unemployment of fresh graduates through massive employment. “Most of the ministries, departments and agencies are understaffed. The government intends to fill these vacant positions with our young men and women who have just graduated from the schools so that they can contribute their quota to the socio-economic development of the state,” he said. Salau said the state executive council had deliberated on the plan by the federal government to increase the national minimum wage of workers in the country and viewed the step as being in tandem with the policy of the administration to pursue goals that would ensure job satisfaction for all category of workers. The commissioner said government had resolved to pay whatever minimum wage was approved by the federal government to its workers, adding that the implementation of the new minimum wage will not lead to job losses in whatever guise. A committee on how to implement the new minimum wage when passed, which included members of the organised labour, has been set up, adding that the government has charged the committee to deliver on its mandate without any waste of time, he said. “The implementation of the new minimum wage will not lead to job loss. The administration is aware that government is the largest employer of labour in this state and will not do anything that will create industrial disharmony,” Salau said. In the area of infrastructural development, the commissioner assured the workers that all parts of the state will continue to enjoy equal distribution of amenities for even growth to be achieved. The government, he said, called for cooperation and support of all for the administration to achieve its set goal. Salau advised the public to avoid rumour mongering, which he said was capable of creating unnecessary tension and disunity among the ethnic groups in the state.