Freedom in its most beautiful form– that is what the GLC has stood for since its launch in autumn 2015. Like its predecessors, the SUV combines outstanding on and off-road driving characteristics with spaciousness, practicality and comfort. In addition, the latest generation adds further advanced pioneering technologies, the distinctive design, connectivity and state-of-the-art infotainment. Thus, the GLC once more demonstrates how elegantly and effortlessly hallmark brand safety and intelligent adaptability can be combined to great success. The result is an SUV that sets new standards, on the road as well as in terrain. With its distinctive appearance, the new operating concept, innovative driving assistance systems and a new range of engines, the GLC offers the best from the world of Mercedes-Benz. The exterior design captivates with the wide and sporty visual appearance. Muscularly sculpted surfaces and distinctive details such as the chrome elements, which now run from the front to the rear end as standard, the redesigned headlamps and the heavily contoured radiator grille ensure a strong off-road character. The interior combines luxury and user-friendliness in an uncompromising way: The workmanship is at the usual high level and the infotainment system has larger touchscreen multimedia displays. In addition, the latest generation of the MBUX – Mercedes-Benz User Experience multimedia system impresses with intuitive and versatile operating options such as touch, gesture control and the optimised voice control system. The driving assistance systems were considerably expanded and complemented with the exit warning function, the emergency corridor function and the tail end of a traffic jam function, among others. Also new is Trailer Manoeuvring Assist, which provides assistance with manoeuvring in reverse in particular. For the market launch in mid-2019, the GLC will be equipped with new petrol and diesel engines of the latest engine family from Mercedes-Benz with more output and greater efficiency – more engines will follow later in the year. The most important advancements of the GLC MBUX – Innovative telematics: The combination of the touchscreen multimedia displays, navigation with augmented reality, intelligent voice control via the talk button or the “Hey Mercedes“ prompt, connectivity and the user interface now brings the GLC also in line with the latest technological standards. Drive system: The GLC will be equipped with the next generation of four-cylinder petrol and diesel engines with increased output at significantly lower fuel consumption – on the petrol engines thanks to the new 48-volt on-board electrical system with belt-driven starter-generator. Advanced assistance systems: Active Distance Assist DISTRONIC and Active Steer Assist provide even more comfortable support to help the driver to keep a safe distance and steer. The speed is adjusted automatically ahead of bends or junctions. Active Steer Assist helps with forming an emergency corridor and with changing lanes. The risk of potential collisions can be reduced by the turn-off function of Active Brake Assist by braking if the driver fails to see oncoming traffic. Exterior design: distinctive appearance Modernity, strength and versatility: that is what the design of the GLC embodies. The design idiom of the GLC follows the design philosophy of sensual purity and illustrates the carefully considered interplay of aesthetics, agility and intelligence. The appearance is sportier overall, the chrome elements now run from the front to the rear end as standard. The distinctive lines, muscularly sculpted surfaces and distinctive details ensure a strong off-road character. The front end gives the impression of emotion, presence and dominance at the very first glance. This design message is made particularly memorable by the standard-fit LED High-Performance headlamps with the torch-design daytime running lights, as well as by the heavily contoured radiator grille with the dynamically shaped double louvres and the diamond lattice. The available paint colours now include graphite grey – with four flush aerodynamic wheels with diameters ranging from 17 to 19 inches and tyres with optimised rolling resistance being another new addition. The AMG Line impressively emphasises the dynamic appearance of the GLC – with the chromed diamond grille and the front apron with AMG-specific design as well as with angular exhaust tips integrated into the bumper. In addition to sport seats with high side bolsters, this design and equipment line also includes the optimal mixed-size tyres from 19 to 20 inches in diameter (depending on the market). The standard-fit LED High-Performance headlamps are smaller and more raked, and have significantly modified contours: The torch shape of the daytime running lights hones the design and guarantees better recognisability of the Mercedes-Benz light signature. A full-LED headlamp with MULTIBEAM technology is optionally available. The athletic character continues in the rear view with the completely revised bumper and exhaust tips. The redesigned full LED tail lamps also ensure an unmistakable light signature – with the hallmark blocks of the Mercedes-Benz SUVs in backlit edge-light specification. All in all, the design idiom of the rear end underscores the powerful character of the GLC generation, not least because of the design of the bumper with the exhaust tips and the chromed skid plate sporting the typical SUV design. Interior design: intelligence meets ergonomics Refined materials, precision workmanship and flowing shapes – that is what characterises the interior of the GLC. It is characterised by flowing surfaces in connection with clear lines and irresistible proportions. The interior of the Base Line is finished in black. The centre console features an elegant trim component, which is available in piano lacquer finish or the two new wood surface finishes – open-pore ash wood and walnut. The lines of the noble-wood veneers in the centre console exemplify supreme craftsmanship.