Ebere Nwoji STACO Insurance Plc said it has strengthened its retail business portfolio with renewed vigour, through its addition of three customised retail insurance products. The company said this is in a bid to fulfil its strategic objectives by retaining and enhancing its clients’ base, adding real and genuine value to customers’ needs and extending the penetration of existing products and service.
A statement by the Head Corporate Communications of STACO Insurance, Dr. Tunde Odeyemi, said the new products are STACO Personal Protection Plan (PPP) which protects its holders against accidental death, permanent or temporary disability and medical expenses arising from all forms of accidents. Also, the STACO Home Owners Insurance seeks to protect its holders from loss or damage to their precious assets or properties at home, arising from theft, fire, lightning and explosion, damage caused by bursting or overflowing of water tanks apparatus or pipes amongst others and the STACO Travel Policy was designed to provide compensation for accidental death, permanent disability or partial disability, loss of luggage up to a specified amount and medical expenses following accidents. He said the travel insurance policy covers all the travels embarked upon by the subscriber through any means of transportation on both local and international travels. According to him, the customised insurance policies have been designed to bring comfort to their holders and improve their well-being at a very affordable price.
Odeyemi, said STACO Insurance was known for its passion for high standards and its customer-centred service delivery, adding that the company was committed to putting smiles on the faces of its teaming clientele by developing and offering flexible, top-notch quality and customer friendly insurance products at all times. STACO Insurance Plc is one of the leading Insurance companies in Nigeria, a product of a well thought out acquisition carried out on Alpha Insurance Plc.
The Company which commenced operations in 1994 specialises in General Insurance and Special Risks businesses.