By Amby Uneze in Owerri Still confused over the affairs of Imo State after his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, lost the governorship election and the Imo West Senate seat which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) refused to issue him the certificate of return, the state Governor, Chief Rochas Okorocha, has accused the Governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, of playing politics by laying foundation for excuses to the people over the alleged N17 billion withdrawal within three days of the announcement of governorship results. In a statement by Okorocha’s Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo,  the governor stated that Ihedioha does not have the mental or intellectual capacity to govern a highly endowed state like Imo, adding that he cannot measure up with Okorocha’s ‘amazing’ achievements in the state. “He (Ihedioha) is only laying the foundation for excuses to the Imo people why he will fail as their governor. He was contentiously declared winner on Tuesday, on Thursday, he came up with the allegation of the state government withdrawing N17 billion. He never mentioned how the withdrawal was made, whether it was withdrawn cash or through transfer. And where in Imo State, with the meager federal allocation and IGR can one get N17 billion to withdraw? “He is coming to be governor with the only income he made at the National Assembly because prior to his going to the National Assembly, he never did any paid job, and he is trying now to blackmail a man adjudged to be the highest property owner both in Owerri and Abuja several years before becoming a governor. “He has not said anything about free education, urban renewal and several other sensitive people-oriented programmes and policies of the Rescue Mission Government in the state. He is only talking about money and property. It is going to be interesting. “He (the governor-elect) should also know that with what Okorocha has achieved, Imo people won’t entertain any excuse from him. If he likes let him talk about Okorocha from now till when he will leave as governor. The die is cast. Action speaks louder than words. Blackmail or propaganda which the PDP invested heavily in during the 12 years they governed the state has become old-fashioned in the state at the moment,” he stated. Okorocha urged Nigerians and Imo people in particular to ignore Ihedioha and the PDP with such gimmicks, adding that the incoming government has every right to probe Okorocha and the family, including the food they ate in Government House from 2011 to 2019.