Deji Elumoye in Abuja Former Senate Leader, Senator Ali Ndume, on Monday formally wrote the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) about his intention to vie for the office of Senate President when the 9th Senate is inaugurated in June. This brings to two the number of Senators itching to succeed Dr Bukola Saraki as Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, had at the weekend also made public his intention to be Senate President. Ndume had in a two-page letter dated March 25 addressed to APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, announced his intention to run for the office and sought the blessing of the party to contest for tge position.
Ndume (APC Borno South) said he is throwing his hat into the ring believing that the Senate President position would be zoned to the North East geo-political zone where he hails from. According to him, the decision to seek election into the exalted office was borne out of his desire to help accelerate socioeconomic development of the nation. The letter read inter alia : “Following the successful conduct of the 2019 general election and the overwhelming victory of our great party the APC at all levels, I hereby forward my letter of intent to contest for the office of the President of the Senate in the 9th National Assembly. “I wish to emphasize that my decision to contest for the Senate Presidency is informed by my conviction to contribute my quota to nation building,” the letter stated. Ndume, who was majority leader of the 8th Senate until February, 2017, assured of his capacity to deliver on party policies and programmes, saying, “my vast legislative experience and my deep desire to take Nigeria to the next level of development” are reasons for contesting. Ndume, in the letter, said calls from respected party (members) both within the North East and other parts of the country have encouraged his aspiration. “For these reasons and more, I wish to forward myself for the blessings of the Party, my Colleagues in the Senate and fellow Nigerians for the post of the President of the Senate.” He expressed optimism “that the Party leadership will see the desired wisdom in zoning the Senate Presidency to the North-East due to our sterling performance in the 2019 polls, giving the President the second highest votes cast.”
According to him, the position would enable him to also fulfill the aspirations of the insurgency-ravaged people of the North East whose respite came with the coming of APC government in 2015.