Martins Ifijeh General Electric (GE) Healthcare has partnered with the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) to supply latest technology in computed tomography (CT) and Discovery RT, to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), for its modern NSIA-LUTH Cancer Center, commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari last month. The Discovery RT, a simulation CT machine, is the first of such technology to be installed in the country. It enables physicians to study the body in detail allowing them to determine the exact location, shape, and size of the tumor to be treated. As part of the partnership, GE Healthcare will also provide servicing of the equipment and deliver hands-on training for the hospital’s radiology staff on the new technology. Nigeria currently has eight public and one private comprehensive cancer care centers to serve its growing population of over 180 million people. Many of the centers have radiotherapy machines that are outdated, making access to radiation therapy more difficult for cancer patients. Sharing his thoughts, the General Manager, West Central and French Sub-Sahara Africa, GE Healthcare, Evong Ebai said, “For many years, GE Healthcare has developed tools that help improve the care of patients through advanced technologies that facilitate the diagnosis as well as help the fight against diseases such as cancer. “We are happy to collaborate with NSIA in this landmark achievement for Nigeria in progressing the availability of world-class radiotherapy for cancer patients in the region. This will help improve the overall results in the fight against cancer, as well as in improving the quality of life.” He said the new radiotherapy centre will increase access to quality services for patients across Lagos State, adding that this will help early detection and treatment of cancer, which improves chances of cure. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has projected that by 2030, between 10 and 11 million cancers will be diagnosed in low and middle-income countries.