Access Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc have concluded plan to jointly mark the International Women’s Day, 2019, as both banks look forward to the completion of their merger process. This would be celebrated with a 2-day event themed: ‘Balance for Better.’ The celebrations would kick off with a cocktail event next Wednesday, at Access Bank’s head office in Lagos, with top management from both banks and other dignitaries in attendance. “Both banks will host women across various industries to a breakfast conference at Eko Hotel & Suites on the second day of the conference, March 14, 2019. “This conference will feature insightful panel sessions, where seasoned speakers will address issues related to how women can leverage on technology and finance to build profitable and innovative ventures, as well as accelerate actions towards supporting women in their quest to be the best they can be,” a statement explained. Head of Women Banking, Access Bank Plc, Ada Udechukwu   said: “At Access Bank, we are passionate about the woman and her overall well-being. “We are interested in her growth in family life, career, health and other areas. We will continue to provide platforms and support programs that will help women and their businesses. “This value-packed conference has been organised to help women learn essential lessons which can be applied to their daily lives and businesses. It will help them become all they want to be and be the best at it.” Speaking about the event, the Group Managing Director/CEO Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe said: “At the core of our services is catering to the needs of women and we are constantly gearing efforts towards promoting women-focused initiatives and providing opportunities to help them maximise their potential. “One of the reasons we are hosting this breakfast conference is to help women overcome limitations as well as reach their best potential.” Wigwe also said: “As we expand with the merger, and continue on our journey to building Africa’s biggest retail bank, our women now have more innovative offerings that they can explore to make themselves and their businesses better. Corroborating this statement, Head of Affluent Banking at Diamond Bank, Dolapo Orelaja, said: “This joint conference between Diamond Bank and Access Bank has been organised to equip our women with the knowledge and skill that they require to grow their businesses, develop themselves and stay relevant in the fast changing business environment of today.” 