As part of its efforts to promote the city’s ever-evolving tourism proposition to African tourists, Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (Dubai Tourism), will be kicking off a road show across key cities in Ghana and Nigeria between March 15 and March 22. With the ultimate vision of positioning Dubai as the world’s leading tourism destination and commercial hub, Dubai Tourism’s mission is to increase the awareness of Dubai among global audiences and to attract tourists and inward investment into the emirate. And on the heels of record growth rates and a successful 2018, Dubai Tourism is looking to further strengthen relationships with key industry stakeholders in the West African region. With a record 28 Dubai-based partners participating, Dubai Tourism will begin the road show in Accra, Ghana Friday, March 15; followed by Abuja, Nigeria on Monday, March 18, Port Harcourt on Wednesday, March 20 and Lagos on Friday, March 22. The road show will highlight Dubai’s affordable experiences and diversity of offerings to key travel partners in the West African region; spanning across travel, accommodation, entertainment and events in the city, with a focus on family travel. Special showcasing during the event will include breakout network sessions, partner presentations, one-to-one meetings, an education session and Dubai Expert certifications, and a briefing update on Expo 2020. Dubai Tourism will be joined by partners including Atlantis The Palm Hotel & Resort, Dubai Parks and Resorts, Emirates Airlines, Excite Tourism, Expo 2020, Flora Creek Hotel Apartments, Four Seasons Hotel DIFC, Golden Sands Hotel Apartments, Golden Treasure Tourism, Groups Travel Tourism, Jebel Ali Golf Resort & Spa, Jumeirah Group and Kempinski Hotel. Others include, Le Meridien Hotel and Conference Centre, Rayna Tourism, Red Apple Middle East Tourism, Roda Hotel Group, Royal Arabian Tours, Al Saqr Al Zahabi, Swissotel Alghurir, The Ritz Carlton DIFC, The Ritz Carlton Dubai, White Sands Tours & Travel, Wyndham Marina Hotel and Dubai Health Authority. Speaking about the investment Dubai Tourism makes in Africa, Salim Ali Mohamed Dahman, Head of Campaigns – Africa at Dubai Tourism said: “We will continue to invest in Africa, and this road show is just another way for us to reach our partners in the market. Further evidenced by the record number of participants travelling with us on this trip, the West African market is very appealing and a priority for our Dubai-based partners.” He went on to say: “With Nigeria being one of our top source markets, we have an all-star team of seasoned representatives from Dubai Tourism to welcome the attendees and conduct meetings and networking opportunities where substantial business deals are made between our partners. “This is why we will continue to be present throughout the year and aim to steadily increase the number of partners we bring with us each year.”