 As the jostle for leadership positions in the ninth National Assembly gathers momentum, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it will ensure that the party’s decisions are respected by members in electing the principal officers.
The position of the ruling party is coming as the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, has said that his ambition to lead the ninth Senate is predicated on his vision to run a National Assembly that would sustain positive change for the good of Nigerians.
Unlike what happened during its assumption of power in 2015, APC said it would not allow the minority party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to interfere in choosing who emerges as the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
The National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu, who spoke with THISDAY at the weekend, assured Nigerians that the party would not allow a repeat of what led to the crisis within its caucus at the National Assembly at the onset of the out-going legislature.  Lawan Vows to Obey Party Decision, Explains Ambition Meanwhile, the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan, has said that his ambition to lead the ninth Senate is predicated on his vision to run a National Assembly that would sustain positive change for the good of Nigerians.
He said although he had declared his ambition, he would subject it to his party’s decision on the leadership of the federal legislature.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Lagos, Lawan noted that even though the senators belong to different political parties, they should always work for all Nigerians.
Lawan, who was accompanied by over 12 senators, also declared that he is an apostle of separation of powers who also believes in consultation, synergy and cooperation with the executive arm of government to achieve positive results for the country.
According to him, separation of powers must not be misconstrued as independent of different arms of government but specialisation of functions and interdependence of the various arms.
“That does not mean that we will not disagree. But when we disagree, we should not go to the village or market square to settle our differences. That is the way to go to enable Nigerians benefit from democracy,” he said.
According to him, “I believe in progressive politics; I believe in ensuring that the ordinary people – the masses of Nigeria require every person’s support for opportunities to actualise their potentials and dreams. I also believe that we should do everything possible to encourage and support entrepreneurship, and businesses to grow so that jobs will be created for our teeming population.