 The council also approved the purchase of 22,150 set of lockers and chairs for students; 1,228 set of tables and chairs for the teachers; 1, 130 marker boards for teaching and 1,960 ceiling fans for conducive learning environment. The administration equally awarded contract for the construction of a state-of-the-art administrative block at the new site of the Enugu State University of Education, Ihe, in Awgu Local Government Area, as the first significant step towards the relocation of the school from G.R.A Enugu to the permanent site. Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the council’s meeting, the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Uche Eze, added that the council approved the purchase of two Hilux vans for effective monitoring and supervision of the projects, and disclosed that the construction of classrooms and procurement of facilities will cost the sum of N4billion. Prof. Eze, who explained that the projects will be executed under the Enugu State Basic Education Board (ENSUBEB), revealed that “the state government has already contributed its counterpart fund which led to the drawdown of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) fund”. He disclosed that the construction of the administrative block at Ihe, will cost the sum of N162,913,167.90, adding that when completed, activities and the processes of obtaining relevant approvals from the National University Commission (NUC) will commence. The education commissioner further disclosed that the building “will not only accommodate the Vice Chancellor’s office and the Registrar’s office, it will also accommodate the Council Chamber, the Office of the Pro-Chancellor and other offices that will ensure the kick off of smooth administration”. He pointed out that “His Excellency has shown full commitment to the take off of the University”, stressing: “That structure is a very first significant step and before long, the University will take off fully”. On road projects, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Greg Nnaji, stated that in line with the governor’s promise in the 2019 budget for “better urban, inter-local government and community road infrastructure”, the council equally approved the construction/reconstruction of Carter street, Asata, Enugu; Aludele road, Nsukka; Bishop Court road, Awgu; Access road to Igbo Ano Specialist Hospital, Igbo Ano, and failed culvert, pavement and surfacing at Onuiyi road, Nsukka adjacent to Zik’s residence, totaling N544.795, 992.68. Other approvals obtained, according to the works and infrastructure commissioner, weee for his ministry to commence “engineering studies and design” of Oji River and Nsukka modern township stadia for Enugu West and Enugu North Senatorial Districts respectively; pre-contract documentations for the construction of state secretariat annex at Nsukka satellite town; revalidation of contract for consultancy services for Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Based Bridges and roads inventories and mapping of Enugu State; revalidation of the contract for the consultancy services for engineering design, Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), procurement support and construction supervision of the second phase of rural roads in the state won by Umar Munshi Associates/Allot Nig. Ltd; and engagement of a Technical Assistant (TA) on Infrastructure and contract management for Enugu RAMP-2”. Another highlight of the briefing was the approval for the recruitment of 52 personnel, namely 4 Fire Officers, 24 Fire Lead Men and 24 Fire Men, for the State Fire Service to man the five newly built stations across the three senatorial districts of the state, for efficient and effective discharge of duties.