More corporate organisations are signing up to support the ninth edition of the Daniel Ogechi Akujobi Memorial (DOAM) Foundation Charity Golf Tournament, the Final of which is set to hold on Saturday, March 30, 2019 at the Golf Section of Ikoyi Club 1938 in Lagos. According to the Coordinator of the DOAMF Charity Golf Tournament, Mr. Pat Bassey, the different levels of support offered by the sponsors will go a long way in helping the foundation reach its objective for 2019 of touching at least 5,000 lives. “The show of support is very much appreciated and we would gladly harness all resources for the benefit of the targeted vulnerable persons, in the areas of healthcare and education, The Foundation remains committed to maintaining the goodwill garnered through passionate consistency and accountability in all its dealings till now”. He further affirmed a commitment to deliver better value to every participant and partner of the event. In all, about 190 players will be teeing off at the one day event. About half of the field will be drawn from the Qualifier that took place on March 2, 2019. The other half of the total number of players will be drawn from lady and veteran players, as well as from the list of the Foundation’s corporate and individual partners/sponsors, and guests. PricewaterhouseCoopers, Zenith Bank Plc, Diamond Bank Plc, Providus Bank, ARM Pension Managers, Radial Circle Group, Amni Petroleum, SEPLAT Petroleum, Channels Television, Silverbird Television, Grand OAK, Cappa & D’Alberto, SPAR (Park N’ Shop), Total E&P, Exxon Mobil, First Bank Nigeria PLC, Mixta Africa, Victoria Crown Plaza, Ikoyi Club 1938, Protea Hotel, and many more, have confirmed their sponsorship of the event. This is in addition to a growing list of individuals who continue to affirm their sponsorship support. Over 79,000 lives have been impacted from donations received by the Foundation.
The DOAMF Charity Golf Tournament funds have been channeled to support social causes in specific areas of education, healthcare, and emergency intervention in the society. Proceeds from last year’s tournament enabled the Foundation to enrol 14 new children to its Scholarship Programme for Primary, Secondary and Tertiary education, in addition to providing free medical screening and treatment for over a thousand children and adults of Wera Community, Ikorodu, and Alamala Community, Abeokuta, amongst other interventions. As is usual, this year’s tournament will be concluded with a prize giving/award Cocktail Party in the evening of the same day during which the Foundation will interact with and show appreciation to all its partners and donors.