By Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, Thursday assured the state governor-elect, Mr. Seyi Makinde, of his administration’s full support towards a successful change of baton and smooth take off of the incoming administration. He gave the assurance during Makinde’s courtesy visit to him at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, on Thursday. Also with the governor were his Deputy, Chief Moses Adeyemo; Secretary to the State Government, Mr Lekan Alli, among other members of the State Executive Council. On Makinde’s entourage were the Deputy Governor-elect, Mr Rauf Olaniyan; a former Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Hosea Agboola; State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha; his spokesperson, Prince Dotun Oyelade, and other PDP leaders. Ajimobi while lauding Makinde for initiating the visit, said the incoming governor had demonstrated that he was of noble character and that his action was an indication that the interest of the state was paramount to him. He advised his successor to be wary of sycophants and praise singers, stressing that the acrimony that attended the general election should be consigned to the dustbin of history now that elections had been won and lost, urging  the incoming administration to sustain the peace and security that his administration has  enthroned in the last eight years. He  said, “I congratulate you on the opportunity nature has given you to serve humanity. I commend your noble move which is different from the past when after someone loses an election, they will start making troubles and abusing each other. “I am so happy that we are moving this state to a high level. Our own was relatively peaceful and for you to say you want to come and greet me, it is a departure from the past. For me, we must continue on this path. “The peace and security that we have established must be sustained and I know you as a man of peace who is not criminally inclined. I commend you for coming and for me it is a reflection of your kind of person. You are of noble character. “We will be available to you should you need our advice. You should look at the areas we have done well and sustain it and in the areas we have not, please adjust it. We have always been brothers and I believe you deserve it. We should sustain this spirit we have started with. “Beware of praise singers and sycophants. It is always better to leverage on relationship instead of dwelling on acrimonies. Elections have been won and lost and we should forget all acrimonies that attended the elections.” Makinde in his remarks, said the visit was to see the governor firsthand since the conclusion of the elections, adding that the incoming administration would be requiring the help of the incumbent in the interest of the state. He said, “The visit is to see you firsthand since the end of the election. We will require your help. Electioneering is over and certain things that we might have said were just for the campaign talks, but now is the time to face reality. “You have done your own part. Our state is dear to all of us and we shall share your vision like I had said in one of our numerous interactions before the elections. We want to work together with you and make sure that the transition is as smooth as possible.”