By  Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The national leadership of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to use the opportunity of his reelection to seek to unite Nigeria by forming a unity government. In a statement issued yesterday by the National Chairman of ACPN, Alhaji Ganiyu Galadima, the party said the president should do more on the area of insecurity beyond the North-east. While setting agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari, the ACPN asked the President-elect “to do everything possible to unite the country, possibly by forming the government of National Unity which would bring on board all the stakeholders that had something to offer the nation. “We believe that President Buhari should do more on the area of insecurity beyond the North-east. Energy should be deployed to ensure that the Nation’s economy is revamped and the Social Safety net should be improved upon to better the lives of Nigerians especially the elderly and the unemployed.” The party also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, political parties and all Nigerians for giving peace a chance to some extent before, during and after the announcement of results. He called on the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to concede defeat or channel his grievances through appropriate quarters without degenerating into security threat in the country. Galadima said: “President Muhammadu Buhari’s Victory is a well-deserved one, considering his popularity, acceptance across board and his performances in the last three and half years. We as a party had expressed our support for him even before the election and we thank God that our support did not go in vain. “We, therefore, urge Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP to see Buhari’s victory as the will of the majority of Nigerians. The people have spoken. We expect him as a democrat to concede defeat and move on, bearing in mind that it is God that gives power. “We also believe that Alhaji Abubakar and his party have rights to challenge the outcome but we advise that such should be done in a peaceful manner without putting the security of Nigeria and Nigerians at risk.” It will be recalled that ACPN is one of the political parties that adopted President Buhari as its candidate and massively mobilised for his re-election even before the exercise took place.  