 Francis Sardauna in Katsina The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, has described the re-election of President Buhari as sign of significant development in Nigeria’s democracy, affirming that the president’s victory has laid a solid foundation for rebuilding the nation. The governor, who described Buhari’s reelection as the true reflection of the wishes of Nigerians, said: “We had a very successful presidential election with few of minor incidences that are natural for an occasion of this size and of this nature. “I am sure the opportunity given to President Muhammadu Buhari will give him the opportunity to lay a solid foundation for rebuilding our country Nigeria. We thank the people for this show of confidence and I do believe in the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari in taking Nigeria to the next level”. According to Masari, “We thank the people of Nigeria for once again reaffirming their confidence in the ability and capacity of President Muhammadu Buhari to steer the affairs of this nation for the next four years”. Reacting on the rejection of the presidential election result by the PDP, the governor added: “Nigerian politicians are becoming habitual in terms of either rejecting or condemning whenever they lose. Of course, nobody will take away the right of any other person who decides to seek through the legal means re-addressing what he believed, that is normal. “But if you look at the performance of all the political parties, I think the parties performed well in more than two-third of the states, especially in some states in the North and some states in the South-west in particular. It is natural, even here at the state level, we have some difficulties in some areas and by second term we will address them”. When asked what Nigerians should expect from the President during his second term, Masari said: “I think it is work -in- progress – the areas he promised in 2015 are still relevant and he is still on them. Only that during his period of four years, of course some of the lapses or shortcomings in some areas most have been identified and I am sure the president will address them during his second term”.