By John Shiklam in Kaduna The Kaduna state government has imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in Kajuru and parts of Chikun Local Government Areas of the state. There had been growing tension in the affected areas following the invasion and massive killings in rural communities by gunmen suspected to be fulani herdsmen. It was gathered that no fewer than 83 people had been killed in three communities in Kajuru Local Government Area since Sunday following the attacks. Some of the communities that came under the deadly attack since Sunday, according to Danladi Yarima, a lawyer and former President of the Adara Development Association (ADA), include Anguwan Barde, Anguwan Gamu and Kyamara village among others.
He said in Anguwan Barde, which was attacked on Sunday, 35 people were killed, although the police said 16 were killed. Yarima said in Anguwan Anguwan Gamu which was attacked on Monday, 46 people were killed with several others still missing while in Kyamara village which came under attack on Tuesday evening, 2 people were killed.
He said most of the attacks were in the morning between 7:00am and 8:00am.
Following the attacks, there has been tension in the area, leading to mass exodus of villagers from their homes to other places for safety. Announcing the imposition of the curfew in a statement on Wednesday, Samuel Aruwan, spokesman to Governor Nasir el-Rufai, said security assessments had necessitated the imposition of a dusk to dawn curfew. The statement reads: “Security assessments have necessitated the imposition of a dusk to dawn curfew in all parts of Kajuru Local Government Area, effective from today, Wednesday, 13th March 2019.
“The dusk to dawn curfew is also extended to Kujama and Maraban Rido (a suburb in near Kaduna metropolis) which are in Chikun local government.”
“The curfew in the affected areas will be in effect from 6pm to 6am daily, until further notice.
“Security agencies have been directed to ensure strict enforcement of the curfew. “The Kaduna State Government appeals to all residents and communities in the affected areas to bear the inconvenience of the curfew and cooperate with the security agencies.”
The Adara Adara Development Association, (ADA), had in a statement on Tuesday accused the state government of turning a blind eye to the mass killing of their people by rampaging herdsmen. The statement which was signed by Luke Waziri, Assistant National Secretary of ADA, alleged that the killers were being funded and supported to wreak havoc in Adara land, “while those saddled with the responsibility of securing us deliberately looked the other way.” Giving details of the attack, Waziri said: “First, Ungwan Barde was attacked on February 10, 2019 and nobody said anything even though those in government knew. Furthermore, the government pretended that the 11 people killed didn’t matter.
“Then Karamai, another of our community was attacked on 26 February with 38 people killed. While the victims were buried in a mass grave and the injured yet to recover, Ungwan Barde village was attacked again on Sunday 10th March. 17 people were killed and dozens of houses burnt. “The next day, while we were still searching for more dead bodies, Inkirimi and Dogonnoma villages in Maro were attacked, 52 people were killed and dozens injured.
“The smoke had barely settled when an attack was launched in the evening at Ungwan Gora (Labi Village) with dozens injured and 43 houses burnt down. Thousands of households have been displaced now and are moving from one village to the other in search of safety and refuge. “In all these, not a single person has been arrested, non even questioned.
“This is despite the fact that all the attacks took place either in the morning or in the evening – in full glare of everyone.
“The terrorist come in their hundreds, take time to kill and then leave without anyone being caught or apprehended by the security agencies. However, in a strange twist of the application of justice, nine Adara elders and village chiefs were indiscriminately arrested and thrown into the Kaduna prison on allegations of complicity (in the killings of 130 fulanis as announced by el-Rufai).
“The victims that have been killed and brutalised are the same ones being arrested and thrown into prison, while the real killers are being pampered, supported and allowed to freely continue their onslaught on people.”