Francis Sardauna in Katsina The re-elected Katsina State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Bello Masari, on Friday said he has no plan to sabotage the people of the state, vowing to accommodate all indigenes irrespective of tribal, religious or political affiliations. Governor Masari disclosed this shortly after receiving his certificate of return for the 2019 governorship election alongside his Deputy, Mannir Yakubu and 34 state House of Assembly members-elect on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). According to him, “I have no intention or plan to sabotage the people of Katsina State. Let me also assure the people of Katsina State that APC as a party will always remain committed towards bringing better programmes and policies that the masses will benefit from.” Masari, who could not control his emotions while addressing the audience at the event, urged those who contested the election with him but lost to join hands with him in order to move the state forward. He said his administration had fulfilled 70 per cent of its campaign promises in the last three and a half years despite the meagre resources that accrued to the state. Presenting the certificate of return to the elected leaders, the National Electoral Commissioner in charge of Jigawa, Kano and Katsina, Mr. Abubakar Ahamed Nahuche, called on them to imbibe the culture of sportsmanship and shun politics of bitterness. The national electoral commissioner reaffirmed that inconclusive elections have improved the quality of elections in recent times in Nigeria. According to him, “It shows improvement in the quality of elections in recent times in Nigeria. The 2019 general election have generated a lot of interest and debate particularly on declaring elections inconclusive as well as supplementary elections.” On his part, the state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Jibril Ibrahim Zarewa, told the gathering that the elections were conducted in 6,652 voting booths of 361 wards across the 34 local governments of the state. He said the commission in the state would access the process and procedures of the last election with a view to reviewing them to further strengthen the areas of strength and solve the changes.