By Omololu Ogunmade and Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja Chairman of the National Peace Committee, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd.), and the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Revd. Matthew Kukah, yesterday reported the discontent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, over last Saturday’s presidential poll to President Muhammadu Buhari in the State House. This is coming on the heels of the declaration by the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, that nobody can stop his party from approaching the court to reclaim its ‘stolen’ mandate. Abdulsalami, who led other members of the committee including Cardinal John Onaiyekan to a closed-door meeting with the president over the outcome of the February 23 presidential election, told journalists after the meeting that they tabled Atiku’s grouse over the election before the president. However, the former head of state who said the president listened to them and simultaneously noted the grievances of Atiku as presented to him, added that the former vice-president’s decision to challenge the declaration of Buhari as the winner of the election in court was the right way to go. The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had on February 27, declared Buhari as the winner of the February 23 presidential election. According to Yakubu, Buhari polled a total of  15,191,847 to defeat Atiku whom he said scored 11,262,978 in the election. But Atiku rejected the output of the election, describing it as a sham and the worst election in the country in recent times. Consequently, on Thursday, the committee had met with Atiku, his running mate, Peter Obi, National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara. At yesterday’s meeting with Buhari, which lasted for an hour, and also attended by the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, Abdusalami said the committee discussed the complaints and observations of Atiku over the election with Buhari with a view to robbing minds on what could be done. Disclosing that the quest of the committee is national peace, Abdusalami appealed to Nigerians to allow peace to prevail in the country, pointing out that whenever violence breaks out in the country, the masses are usually the victims. He said, “Atiku presented his grievances and his observations. He did not present any condition. He gave his complaints, which we have presented and discussed with Mr. President to see what can be done.” He added, “Yesterday, l met the PDP Presidential candidate and his party in other to ensure peace that this committee is really after. Our concern is about Nigeria. And in other to listen to their grievances and what they think has gone wrong and we are here today to see His Excellency, the President in other to relay the fears and concerns of the PDP, and Mr. President listened to us and has taken note of what we have told him. “Well, Nigerians should please on behalf of this country and all of us, regardless, know that we need peace. This country is very, very important to all of us. We are not talking about self-interest; we are talking about the interest of the country. “I keep saying, whenever there is violence, we are not going to see violence in Ikoyi, in the Villa and you will not find violence in the various government houses in this country. It is always the poor men that get to kill themselves and so on. “So, please, yes, as much as we have grievances, l am glad that the PDP say they are going to court to challenge the process. l think this is the right way to go about it, and l hope and pray that we will maintain this.” PDP: Nobody Can Stop Us from Going to Court Meanwhile, the PDP has vowed that nobody would stop the party from approaching the court to reclaim its ‘stolen’ mandate. Secondus, while addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja tagged,  “APC Body Bag Election” in continuation of its update on last Saturday’s presidential election, said that the party has enough evidence to approach the court. According to him, “When All Progressives Congress, APC, leaders were threatening foreign election monitors with returning to their country on body bags, we didn’t know that they had designed the same thing for Nigerians. “As at the last count over 50 Nigerians have lost their lives last Saturday most of them from the South South region where a division of the army with their commander were turned on the people on the Election Day.” Secondus noted that as part of their strategy to ensure that PDP is distracted from pursuing its stolen mandate, Buhari’s regime has decided to intensify their intimidation and strangulation of the opposition. He noted that some prominent members of the opposition have been put on surveillance and their names listed to be stopped from traveling out of the country. On the meeting with the Peace Committee, Secondus noted; “There was no condition. Initially, we were not to talk with them because a decision had been taken to go to court. But because of the personalities involved, we said ok, let’s just talk. It was no condition. There was no request of any condition.” “We will go to court. Nobody will stop us from going to court and bring all of the facts both the international observers and some people have not seen. We will unearth them at the courts and I believe that justice will be done at the courts.”  PAGE 6 STORY  APC NWC Suspends Amosun, Okorocha, Recommends Duo for Expulsion   Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja and Amby Uneze in Owerri  The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended the Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun and his Imo State counterpart, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, for alleged anti-party activities. The party also suspended the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Uguru Usani and the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu for the same reason. In a swift reaction, Okorocha accused the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole of plotting to destroy the party. The decision to suspend the party chieftains was reached yesterday at a meeting of the party’s NWC, presided by the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja. In a statement issued by APC’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu, the party said it also recommended the expulsion of the suspended individuals to its National Executive Committee (NEC). APC further asked its members to disregard directives and actions of the suspended individuals, saying the party would continue to live by the dictate of its constitution. The party said it would also issue a query to the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu over his glaring anti-party activities, which greatly affected the fortunes of their candidates in the recently-conducted presidential and National Assembly elections in the state. Before wielding the latest hammer, the APC said it had written to the suspended governors on their anti-party activities. APC said that several other steps were taken to ensure they desist from taking actions that were inimical to the interests of their party and candidates. “Notably, these individuals have not shown any remorse and have actually stepped up their actions. The party reviewed the serial anti-party activities of the concerned individuals before and during the last presidential and National Assembly elections in their respective states and resolved to enforce party discipline in line with our constitution,” it said. The APC pointed out that the suspended members have continued to campaign openly for other parties and candidates that are unknown to the party, “even while they have constituted themselves as opposition to APC candidates in their respective states.” The APC further said that the NWC was closely monitoring the activities of its members across the country, particularly those in the states of these suspended members. “We wish to reiterate that any member of our party who takes any action solely or in line with the directives of the suspended members to undermine our party’s candidates in the coming governorship and House of Assembly elections would face disciplinary actions,” it said. Okechukwu may have incurred the wrath of the party, following his scathing criticism of Oshiomhole over the party’s decision to recognise the Special Adviser to the President, Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku Nwagu, whom he contested against in the senatorial primary election. But in his swift reaction, Okechukwu dismissed the suspension, insisting that he had not done anything to warrant such an action. The VON D-G said he should not be blamed for the triumph of bigotry in Enugu State and in the South-east in general. According to Okechukwu, if anything, he was instrumental to the most consistent advertisements placed in several media in the South-east, on behalf of the party.  Okorocha: Oshiomhole Determined to destroy APC  Meanwhile, Governor Okorocha has accused the national chairman of the APC of planning to destroy the party, with his suspension. Okorocha maintained that Oshiomhole was determined, right from the outset, to destroy the APC in the South-east which was unknown to party Chieftains in the zone who had genuinely supported his chairmanship. In a statement signed by Okorocha’s Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, he stated that Oshiomhole was playing the politics of 2023 in 2019 and that in doing so, he had thrown caution to the wind. He said there were crises in all the South-east states, and that all resulted from the alleged fraudulent manner he (Oshiomhole) conducted the primaries. “When the APC members across the nation are still celebrating the success of the party in the Presidential and National Assembly elections, Oshiomhole in his wisdom or lack of it, felt that the best action in the circumstance was to suspend two governors who did well in the election, even when he played safe in 2015 and 2019 in Edo State without any known pressure. “Again, Oshiomhole coming up with the purported expulsion, this time, was only acting out of the fear that God in his infinite Mercy could give Governor Okorocha a role to play in the Senate, in the overall interest of the nation. “The truth is that Oshiomhole is only labouring in vain to play his own part of the deal that warranted his giving out the tickets of the party to non-deserving elements like in the case of Imo,” he stated. The problem between the Imo state governor and the APC national leadership began during the conduct of primaries to select the governorship candidate in the state. While Okorocha wanted his Chief of Staff and son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, Oshiomhole was vehement in opposing what he said was a plan by the governor to create a family political dynasty in Imo state. After the primary election panel headed by Ahmed Gulak upheld the election of Senator Hope Uzodinma as APC’s governorship candidate for Imo State, Nwosu was said to have dumped APC and picked the ticket of the Action Alliance (AA) on the advice of the governor.  Amosun’s Ogun APC Battle  The face-off between Amosun and the party came to a climax when both sides clashed during the presidential campaign rally in Abeokuta attended by President Muhammadu Buhari. Amosun had disagreement with the party’s leadership over the choice of the party’s governorship candidate for Ogun state. While Dapo Abiodiun emerged through the primary election conducted by the APC national leadership, another candidate, Abiodun Akinlade, anointed by Governor Amosun, also laid claim to the ticket, having emerged from a parallel primary election conducted by the faction loyal to the governor. In the ensuing tussle for the APC ticket, Oshiomhole-led NWC insisted on the choice of Dapo Abiodun. An aggrieved governor Amosun directed Akinlade to move to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and subsequently switched his support to the new party.