As the Edo State government intensifies work on the over 140 roads across the state, Edo residents have applauded the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration on efforts to improve critical road infrastructure.  The residents hailed the governor during a pidgin radio programme, Man Around Town, on Independent Radio, a private radio station, monitored on Monday in Benin City.  A cross-section of the callers on the programme said that Governor Obaseki has continued with his commendable efforts at improving road infrastructure and bringing succour to a number of people in several communities in the state. One of the callers, Julius Ugiagbe, said that the ongoing road construction by Governor Obaseki has brought relief to residents in Ikpema Road which links Textile Mill Road and New Lagos Road in Uselu axis of Benin City.  “Landlords in the area are excited about the quality of the work being done on the road. We thank the governor for a job well-done. We urge that the state government should continue to insist on quality projects from the contractors handling the road which will ensure that the roads last long,” Ugiagbe said.  A resident in Ekpoma, Edo Central, Osazuwa John, expressed appreciation to the state government for the construction of Poultry Road, opposite Ambrose Alli University (AAU), which he said was abandoned by previous administrations.  He noted that the Poultry Road project and other road projects being carried out in Ekpoma town will open more areas to economic activities and make life easier for residents, especially university students.  Other residents, however, expressed optimism that the ongoing projects in other parts of the state have rekindled hope in the government.  A resident in Benin City, Desmond Osayi, appealed to the state government to “extend the ‘Wake and See’ road construction to Eweka Street, off Upper Lawani” while Anthony Osamudiamen called on the governor to extend the good work to Evbayoboru Street, off 2nd East Circular Road.  Further checks showed that work is ongoing on Awo and Ogbelaka streets linking Sokponba and Sapele roads in Benin City.