The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has assured Nigerians that the commission will continue to maintain high standards in its operations as a regulatory body. He also said the NCC was committed to surpassing the record of platinum rating it received from a sister agency, the Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR), two years ago.
Danbatta spoke at the weekend in Abuja while receiving the Managing Director of the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc, Alhaji Abbas Umar Masanawa, who paid him a courtesy. The NCC boss expressed delight that the commission is now globally acclaimed for regulatory excellence and operational efficiency, helping it to achieve great success in the key areas of its mandate. “The verdict is out there on the performance of the commission as a word class regulatory agency. We didn’t pass this verdict by ourselves.
“But it took a lot of hard work and commitment by both management and the entire staff of the Commission for us to achieve the enviable position we are today,” Danbatta said. Masanawa, observed that despite inheriting a world class organisation Danbatta had not left any stone unturned in his efforts to add to the success story. He said he was at the headquarters of the Commission to seek for partnership, especially in the areas of printing of sensitive documents.
Masanawa, who was accompanied by top staff of the company, however, said like the NCC, the company was aiming to become a world class organisation, which can attract business from outside the shores of the country. LSETF Boss Resigns The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) has announced the exit of its Executive Secretary, Mr. Akintunde Oyebode, who is expected to leave the fund on March 31 2019, to take up a senior role with the Ekiti State Government. Commenting, the Chairman of the LSETF, Mrs. Ifueko M. Omoigui Okauru, was quoted in a statement to have said: “We thank Mr. Akintunde Oyebode for his work as pioneer Executive Secretary of the Fund. His leadership and commitment to job creation contributed to the Fund’s success and impact. “Akintunde has demonstrated that young people have the capacity to succeed in leadership roles. We are glad that the Fund has positioned him for higher responsibilities.
“We will miss his leadership and wish him the best in his future endeavours. Our strong leadership team and succession plan will ensure the Fund continues to operate seamlessly.” In his remarks, Oyebode said, “I am grateful to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for finding me worthy to serve the people of Lagos State, especially in supporting job creation, and as a result, lifting our most vulnerable people out of poverty. “I am also very grateful to the Lagos State House of Assembly, especially the House Committee on Wealth Creation and Employment, Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment and Ministry of Finance for their support. “Finally, I would like to thank the Board of Trustees whose support and guidance shaped our work; and my brilliant colleagues, whose invaluable contribution delivered the impressive results we achieved so far.” LSETF’s MSME Loan Programme has disbursed over N6.5 billion to almost 10,000 beneficiaries; while over 3,500 unemployed Lagos residents have been provided with vocational training. Mouka Celebrates World Sleep Day
Mouka Limited has disclosed that it celebrated the World Sleep Day in style by opening another Sleep Gallery at its corporate head office in Lagos.
The Ikeja Sleep Gallery was an addition to seven others across the nation. The World Sleep Day is an initiative of the World Sleep Society to recognise the impact of sleep on human health. This annual event also focuses on the many effects of sleep problems, as well as the importance of healthy sleep at any age.
Speaking at the World Sleep Day Press conference, the CEO of Mouka Limited, Mr. Raymond Murphy, explained that quality sleep was a treasured function and one of the core pillars of good health. He added that when sleep fails, health declines, decreasing the quality of life. This, he said explains his company’s commitment to providing the best mattresses, pillows and other products to enhance quality sleep. Also speaking at the event, the National President of the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapists (NSP), Dr. Rufai Ahmed, stated that sleeping on a wrong mattress would alter the natural curvature of the spine thereby resulting in musculoskeletal problems and possible injury. Send