Hamid Ayodeji
The Nigeria travel and tourism expo (Travel Nigeria) is set to take place in Lagos, on March 23rd 2019.
The event is aimed at promoting innovation, collaboration as well as to promote the travel and tourism industry in Nigeria. It comprises a national conference and exhibition and would host only business-facing and consumer-facing travel and tourism expo in Nigeria.
According to a statement signed by the Event Director, Ike Steve, the event would gather the most influential travel and tourism players, industry professionals and policy makers for a full day of expert-led conferences and tailored networking events to learn, share, discuss and chart a new path for the Nigerian travel and tourism industry. Steve said, “To address the impact of the geopolitical, economic and societal challenges facing the Nigerian travel and tourism industry and create new sources of growth, stakeholders need to adapt and rethink their strategies by collaborating with fellow players and creating new forms of philosophies. “The Travel Nigeria expo is designed to offer insights, inspiration and solution oriented tools to turn these philosophies into actions.
“The event would look at the roles and opportunities for all players in the market, including investors, financiers, government, ICT providers, development agencies and their related advisers, while networking with professionals, in tourism from across the country.” Furthermore, he explained that the event would provide stakeholders a platform for discussing and sharing experiences, deliberating on innovative initiatives to support the growth of the nation’s economy through the development of a rich tourism sector.
Steve added: “During the event stakeholders would deliberate on five key issues; natural assets, infrastructure, financing, policy and strategy, and technology, covering current burning issues affecting the industry.” He further noted that asides the national conference, the event would feature an exhibition show that would provide opportunity for travel and tourism organisations, state governments and other service providers in the industry to showcase destinations, products, services and technologies.