By Bennett  Oghifo The new Jaguar XE delivers an enhanced exterior design, all-new luxurious interior and advanced technologies. An updated exterior design gives the XE a more purposeful and assertive stance. Continuing on from the beautifully judged proportions of the original car, new XE’s sporting intent has been taken up a level, with contemporary design cues inspired by the F-TYPE sportscar. XE appears wider and lower than before, with larger front apertures, bold graphics and muscular forms eluding to the car’s performance and advanced aerodynamics. New all-LED headlights with a striking ‘J’ blade daytime running light signature create a more purposeful look. The rear of the car also features a new bumper design and slender all-LED tail-lights with updated signature graphics which accentuate the visual width of the car, giving the XE a more planted appearance. For an even more performance-orientated character, R-Dynamic models (Mauritius only) include additional exterior design elements including aircraft winglet-inspired sculpted surfaces, dark mesh detailing to the rear valance and alternative wheel styles. On the interior, the sporting influences continue with sports-style seats with contrast stitching, Satin Chrome gearshift paddles and R-Dynamic treadplates. The beautifully-crafted all-new interior features extensive use of soft-touch materials, premium veneers and all-new door trims that improve usability and practicality. New XE’s luxurious and technology-packed interior delivers more comfort, quality and connectivity for all occupants. Every aspect of the cabin has been enhanced for increased convenience, improved stowage and better passenger comfort. The influence of Jaguar’s flagship two-seater sportscar is also evident as both the SportShift gear selector and JaguarDrive Control switch shared with the F-TYPE are on the revised centre console.A new steering wheel, shared with the all-electric I-PACE, features hidden-until-lit graphics and capacitive switches for intuitive, tactile control of key functions. The new XE is also the smartest and most connected yet. Jaguar’s Touch Pro Duo infotainment system, shared with I-PACE, is also available for the first timein the XE, delivering instinctive control through a pair of seamlessly integrated high-resolution touchscreens. Wireless device charging and clever Smart Settings technology also make their first appearance in the XE. The first-in-segment ClearSight interior rear-viewmirror improves safety and convenience by ensuring the driver has an unobstructed view of the road behind. Using a wide-anglerear-facing camera, the system feeds images to a high-definition screen within the frameless rear view mirror; unhindered by tall rear passengers, poor light or rain on the rear screen. Ian Callum, Jaguar Design Director, said: “XE’s uniqueness is its totality. Customers get a complete package of progressive design, innovative technology and extraordinary driving dynamics. We don’t do ordinary and new XE personifies this. My team and I get huge satisfaction out of improving a car we’re all so familiar with; we’ve lived with it, we understand its character and it’s a wonderful opportunity to make a great car even better. With new XE, we’ve done just that in every way imaginable.” Jaguar XE’s lightweight aluminium intensive body structure continues to play a major role in the car’s agile handling, exceptional safety and efficiency. Aluminium makes up 75 per cent of the body and combines with proven rear and all-wheel drive systems, double wishbone front and integral link rear suspension, plus some of Jaguar’s most advanced engines, for dynamic handling and performance. Standard on all XE models, Dynamic mode amplifies the car’s sporting character, with faster gear shifts, sharper throttle response and increased steering weighting. Drivers are able to shape the driving experience with greater ease thanks to the optional Configurable Dynamics system. This feature allows drivers to set up the vehicle to their personal preference by choosing Comfort or Dynamic settings for the engine, gearbox and steering through the central touchscreen. Where specified, Adaptive Dynamics constantly adjusts the dampers to provide the optimum balance between comfort and refinement at all times and in all driving situations. The new XE is available with a choice of clean and efficient Ingenium petrol and diesel engines. A 2.0-litre Ingenium petrol is available in 184kWoutput, badged P250, while the efficient 132kWIngenium diesel, badged D180, delivers 430Nm of torque and fuel consumption from 4.9l/100km. In Mauritius a second 2.0-litre Ingenium petrol is available with 221kW, badged as P300. XE’s entry-level specification now features an automatic transmission, 17-inch wheels (18-inch in Mauritius), electric leather seats, all-LED headlights and tail-lights with updated signature graphics, front and rear park aid, rear camera and lane keep assist. Customers can select from S, SE and HSE trim levels while a range of option packs provide even greater personalisation: Dynamic Handling Pack: Configurable Dynamics, Adaptive Dynamics, Performance Brakes, Coloured Brake Calipers and a Bootlid Spoiler (Mauritius only) Cold Climate Pack: Heated Windscreen, Heated Steering Wheel, Headlight Washers Technology Pack: Head-Up Display, Solar Windscreen, Touch Pro Duo, Interactive Driver Display, Wireless Charging, ClearSight Interior rear-viewmirror Convenience Pack: Gesture Bootlid, Keyless Entry, Electric Steering Column Adjustment, Additional Power Sockets Premium Interior Upgrade Pack: Illuminated Treadplates, Bright Pedals, Configurable Ambient Lighting  The new Jaguar XE will be available in respective sub-Sahara Africa markets from in the second half of 2019 with pricing to be announced closer to the time.