Uber has announced that it has extended its Partner Injury Protection cover for driver-partners to include a daily payment benefit. Since 2017, Uber driver-partners and riders across Nigeria have been protected on the road, however, with this new update, driver-partners in Nigeria now have more peace of mind when using Uber. Lola Kassim, General Manager for West Africa explains, “We believe this extended partnership with AXA Mansard Insurance will play a huge role in achieving our goal of reliable, affordable, and safe transportation options for all driver-partners and riders across Nigeria.  This update forms part of Uber’s global commitment across the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region and is a unique, first of its kind solution for driver-partners and riders using technology apps across Nigeria.” Driver-partners are covered from the moment they accept a trip, while driving to pick up a rider, and until the trip ends, and riders will be covered from the moment a trips starts, until the trip ends. In the unfortunate event of an accident resulting in an injury during a trip, driver-partners and riders will have access to the following benefits: Medical cover: If an accident happens On-Trip, this cover reimburses driver-partners and riders for necessary medical treatment costs up to NGN 600,000. In addition, this cover reimburses ground ambulance service costs up to NGN 20,000. Death and Funeral payment: In the unfortunate event that a driver-partner or rider dies as a result of an accident On-Trip, their dependents or heirs will benefit from a lump sum payment of NGN 2,000,000 and NGN 100,000 to cover funeral expenses will be reimbursed. Permanent Disability: In the unfortunate event that a user suffers a permanent disability as a result of an accident On-Trip, they will benefit from a lump sum payment of up to NGN 2,000,000  (the amount depends on the severity of the disability). New | Daily Payment Benefit (injury): If a driver-partner is hospitalized for more than 24 hours as a result of an accident that happened On-Trip and are thereafter unable to drive because of those injuries, they will receive a daily payment of NGN 1,000 for up to 30 days whilst they are medically certified by a doctor as unfit to conduct their transportation business. The Injury Protection cover has been tailored specifically for those on the road, building on the security available through the Uber app and ensuring a safer ride during every journey booked through the Uber app. This is an innovative and first of its kind solution for driver-partners and riders using technology apps across Nigeria.