Few months after releasing its Y9 2019 smartphone to the market, Huawei, last week, announced its latest flagship ‘Y Series’ device, the Huawei Y7 in Lagos. Created to empower Nigerians to realise their true potential, the Huawei ‘Y Series combine quality technology and stylish design at a truly affordable price. The new Huawei Y7 Prime 2019 features the latest 6.26-inch Huawei Dewdrop display, 13MP Artificial Intelligence (AI) camera with 1.8 sure aperture lens, long lasting battery for up to 48 hours talk time and an octa-core Qualcomm SoC Snapdragon 450. The Y7 Prime addresses today’s video-centric social media landscape. To maximise the display area for today’s video-loving youths, Huawei puts its newest Dewdrop display in the Y7. Debuted with the flagship Huawei Mate 20 and Mate 20 X, the dewdrop display features a tiny pearl-shaped notch to house the front camera, providing the maximum amount of screen for the users to enjoy full content on screen. Speaking at the media launch, Country Manager, Huawei Nigeria, Mr. Mike Zhu, said: “With a vertically aligned camera system, Huawei Y7 Prime 2019 shares a striking resemblance with a compact digital camera. This is a deliberate design choice: The smartphone was designed to offer the best smartphone photography experience amongst devices of its class.” According to him, at the back, enclosed in a durable ceramic-like back cover and metallic chassis, is a 13+2MP AI Camera. The primary 13MP camera has a wide aperture of f/1.8 with 16 virtual f-stops (supporting f/1.8-6) to provide granular controls over depth of field effects. Speaking about its features, Training Manager for Huawei Nigeria, Esechie Tosin Justina, said the improved camera in the new phone, captures 50 per cent more light information compared to its predecessor. In night mode, Huawei Y7 Prime 2019 combines the light information of four photos taken in quick succession to produce a final image that is bright, clean, and full of details. Similarly, in HDR Mode, it puts together three images taken at different exposures to create a final image with better dynamic range. One of the scenarios HDR Mode excels in is taking photos of objects lit by backlight—the digital combination allows the camera to capture the details of objects that are placed in darker parts of an image, Esechie said. Huawei Y7 Prime 2019 comes with EMUI 8.2, alongside background optimisations that enhance system operational smoothness. The EMUI 8.2 features a range of battery saving measures that help the users make the most out of their device. The Y7 Prime 2019 is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 450 octa-core SoC.