First Bank of Nigeria Limited and other corporate entities in the FBNHoldings group would collectively have a 125km Relay Walk to celebrate the Bank’s 125 years anniversary this Saturday. The bank explained that the relay walk which is to be carried out at locations across Nigeria and other countries where the bank operates was among the many activities lined-up to celebrate its impact and contribution to the growth and development of Nigeria over the years. According to the Chief Executive Officer, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, “the 125km Relay Walk is a representation of the collaborative effort of not just FirstBank but all entities in our holding company, FBNHoldings, that have in the last 125 years impacted lives and contributed to the growth and development of our host communities and countries where we do businesses. “At FirstBank, we are proud of the strides made across these locations where we operate as without the effort of all staff – past and present – as well as our customers and stakeholders, there would be no FirstBank. “The 125km is a mark of our incredible journey of delivering impeccable financial services to our customers as we leave no stone unturned to remain an icon of admiration in today’s financial services industry in Africa.” Adeduntan explained that the relay walk would be a collaborative effort to achieve a symbolic 125km. He added “It is also a representation of the FirstBank brand in the last 125 years; our people, the team work, partnership and the collective spirit which has shown that as a team, together we can do and achieve more. It is neither a marathon, nor sprint, but a surefooted, steady walk we have taken in the last 125 years.” On how the “Relay Walk” would be carried-out and what it means to the brand, Folake Ani-Mumuney, the Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, FirstBank explained: “As a Group, we have journeyed through the ages, our footprints spreading far and wide with indelible landmarks of several firsts. “The Relay Walk, yet another First, combines a relay with a walk. A relay, symbolic with races connotes the agility of sprint, which can only be achieved through a team’s collective effort while the passing of the baton during a relay connotes effective succession, thus all attributes evident in FirstBank’s attainment of 125 years of sustained profitable growth.” The relay walk to be led by Adeduntan would terminate at the bank’s corporate Head Office in Marina where staff, customers and other stakeholders would converge to witness the symbolic baton hand over and a commitment to the next 125 years.