OVH Energy Marketing Ltd, Nigeria’s leading provider of trusted petroleum products and services and licensee of the Oando retail brand, has announced its acquisition of brand new aircraft fueling bowsers as part of its expansion plans to deepen its service offerings in providing fueling solutions to players in the aviation industry. Manufactured by Flightline UK, the bowsers are equipped with latest technological and safety standards certified by the Joint Inspection Group (JIG), the world’s leading organization for the development of aviation fuel supply standards. With a combined capacity of 88,000 litres, capable of dispensing up to 3,500 litres of aviation jet fuel per minute, these bowsers are designed to enhance safety and operational efficiency of partner companies. Commenting on the acquisition, Chief Executive Officer, OVH Energy Marketing Ltd, Mr. Huub Stokman stated “this acquisition is one of the many investment initiatives we have for the downstream industry and we will continue to deepen our investments to consolidate OVH Energy’s leadership position in the aviation sub-sector and the downstream oil & gas industry as a whole. We are committed to exceptional service delivery to foreign and local airline operators in the Nigerian aviation industry so that Nigeria becomes the destination of choice for international airlines to refuel their aircrafts.” The Chief Marketing Officer, Mr. Babafemi Olabiyi also stated that this acquisition positions the company to further improve its aviation customers’ experience amongst whom are leading international, local and specialized airline operators. He reiterated OVH Energy’s commitment to operational excellence whilst delivering exceptional customer service. OVH Energy is the marketer of choice providing trusted petroleum products and services in Nigeria with expertise in jetty and terminaling services as well as the marketing and distribution of refined petroleum products for retail, commercial and industrial purposes. Its aviation business spans over 25 years and is present in the major airport hubs within Nigeria.