By Emma Okonji Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd, during the recently concluded Mobile World Congress 2019 (MWC19) in Barcelona, Spain displayed its new innovative 5G products and other IT solutions including SoftCOM AI. Aside delivering keynotes at the sessions during the conference, the technology firm also held a wide range of discussions on its end-to-end 5G products and solutions with operator customers and partners from around the world
.
Among the new offerings were simplified 5G sites, architecture, protocols, and operations & maintenance (O&M). Huawei says the new offerings will help operators quickly deploy 5G networks on a large scale. At the event, it also launched the SoftCOM AI solution, which will help build autonomous driving networks of the future and maximize the value of telecom networks. Huawei also expressed its commitment to helping operators expand their business boundaries and achieve new growth through innovations in networks, services, and business models. At this year’s event, Huawei showcased its end-to-end 5G products and solutions, ranging from simplified 5G sites and 5G integrated transport, to 5G cloud core and simplified 5G O&M. It also demonstrated its core technologies behind the new products and solutions, including radio frequency, optical transmission, IP, and IT. Similarly, Huawei demonstrated 8K high-definition (HD) live streaming on Vodafone Spain’s 5G network, and showcased new applications such as Cloud VR, cloud gaming, and cloud PCs. Under the support of Huawei, multiple European operators, including Vodafone, announced that 5G networks are now ready for commercial use. In addition, Huawei presented its idea for autonomous driving networks, as well as its full-stack, all-scenario SoftCOM AI solution, with the aim to significantly improve operating efficiency, network performance, O&M efficiency, and user experiences. The SoftCOM AI solution enables “0 bits,0 watts” and adaptive beam adjustment, thereby maximising the value of telecom networks. Huawei is actively innovating networks, services, and business models. It works with customers to redefine the business models and boundaries of the telecom industry, and ultimately help operators succeed. This will be achieved through a portfolio of innovative business solutions, including IoT cloud services, personal mobile services, five-star premium home broadband, and cloud-network convergence.
Huawei also signed 5G contracts with many operators from around the world. So far, Huawei has signed over 30 commercial 5G contracts with operators around the world, and shipped over 40,000 5G base stations. Its aim is to help operators jump start 5G and deliver a high-quality 5G user experience.
This is the first time that all of Huawei’s three business groups (BGs) – Carrier BG, Enterprise BG, and Consumer BG –have participated in the Mobile World Congress (MWC).