 Police Deny Killings in Kano Rerun Poll 6:29pm A Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Anthony Ogbizi Michael, has debunked social media reports of killings in Gama ward in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State during the supplementary election on Saturday. DIG Michael blamed the social media for spreading the fake news. According to him, the story was the fabrication of the social media. “There was no such incident or arrest of some people in the any part of the state because the security arrangement was in order,” he said at a press briefing. “We have not witnessed any incident because voting went on in almost all the polling units smoothly. “There has not been report of any incident of thugs taking over polling unit. If thugs occupy any polling unit definitely INEC officials will not be there to conduct election,” he said. Michael said the police command arrested 10 suspected thugs for allegedly carrying weapons in the metropolis. “Some human beings were arrested in the early hours of today (Saturday) by our men and they were found in group with some weapons like sticks and other things,”he said. He said investigation into the matter was ongoing, adding that as soon as investigation was concluded, they would be charged to court. (NAN) Large Turnout of Voters in Bauchi as PDP Wins Malar Giji Polling Unit 5:25pm By Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi There was large turnout of voters in Bauchi supplementary governorship election held across selected polling units in no fewer than 15 local government areas amidst tight security. THISDAY checks revealed that the elections held across 15 local government areas of the  state were peaceful, smooth and  hitch-free, with impressive turnout of voters. Our correspondent also reports that there are no fewer than 22,641 registered voters in the 36 Polling Units in 29 Registration Areas (wards) scattered across 15 of the 20 Local Government Areas of Bauchi State. However, at the polling unit,  Malar Giji 008, in Bogoro local government,  voters, particularly women were seen in their large numbers, getting accredited and voting without any hitches. The Presiding Officer in charge of the polling unit, Dapirep Panmun, told our correspondent who monitored the conduct of the exercise in the local government that accreditation commenced as early as 8.00am in a peaceful atmosphere. The Presiding Officer said that the card reader machines were very functional and the turnout was very impressive compared to the previous governorship election that was marred by low turnout. Speaking to journalists, a PDP agent and a Bauchi former Commissioner of Mines and Steel, Professor Audu Gani, said that the conduct of the election in the area was peaceful with a large turnout that was unprecedented. He said that all the sensitive and non-sensitive materials arrived the venue of the election in good time together with INEC officials, adding that no case of violence was recorded so far. Meanwhile, PDP has won the governorship supplementary polls in Malar Giji Polling unit in Bogoro local government area of Bauchi state. According to the Presiding Officer, Dapirep Panmun, the PDP polled a total number of 478 to defeat the All Progressive Congress, APC which polled 101 votes. Malar Giji Polling Unit A & B Bogoro D Ward, Bogoro LGA PDP – 478 APC – 101 Total votes cast – 607 Valid votes – 582 Invalid – 25 Polling Officer: Dapirep Panmun  INEC Ends Voting, Commences Sorting, Counting of Ballots in Lagos 3:35pm The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has commenced sorting and counting of ballots at the ongoing supplementary election in Ibeju-Lekki State Constituency I on Saturday. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that voting has ended in most of the nine polling units where the supplementary election is taking place in the area. At polling 004 and 005 of Ward 01 located at the premises of Customary Court, INEC officials started the crossing of unused ballot papers at 2:05 p.m., while sorting and counting commenced immediately. The situation was the same at polling unit 06 of the same ward situated at the junction of Ajewole street in the area. The exercise is being carried out under the watch of various security agencies in the presence of political party representatives. NAN reported that INEC in Lagos State is conducting supplementary election in nine polling units of Ibeju-Lekki State Constituency I for the Lagos State House of Assembly seat. The commission had declared the March 9 House of Assembly election in the constituency inconclusive due to over-voting in the nine polling units covering two registration areas of the constituency. The affected polling units in Ibeju registration area I are polling units 001, 003, 004, 005, 006, and 009, while that of Iwerekun registration area I are polling units 002, 004, and 005. (NAN)  Rerun Poll: Police Send Reinforcement to Gama Ward in Kano 2:16pm The Kano State Police Command has sent more reinforcement of security personnel to Gama ward of Nasarawa Local Government to beef up security at the polling units located in the ward. The Public Relations Officer of the Command, DSP Abdullahi Haruna, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano Saturday. He said that the deployment of additional security personnel to the areas followed the visit by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Anthony Michael to the area. He said that following the report on the security challenges at the area, the DIG visited the ward to assess the security situation there. According to him, the deployment of additional security personnel was necessary as part of efforts to enhance security as well as ensure the protection of lives and property in the affected areas. 1:52pm The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to cancel the rerun governorship election ongoing across the 28 local government areas of the state, alleging that thugs have taken over the process. The Acting Chairman of the party, Rabiu Sulaiman-Bichi, made the call while addressing a news conference in Kano on Saturday. Bichi said there was need for the commission to cancel the election as the process had completely been taken over by armed political thugs. “Today this charade called rerun election was slated to hold in Kano and other states but unfortunately, what we have in Kano is nothing but a sham. “Reports reaching us since yesterday indicated that thugs have allegedly been mobilised to take over all the 208 polling units,” he said. According to him, the thugs were allegedly brought from Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna, Plateau and other neighbouring states and were “armed to the teeth” posing as voters in the polling units in the localities. The chairman alleged that the thugs freely voted with the PVCs that did not belong to them, while some posed as INEC staff. He said as a peace-loving party, the PDP had alerted security agencies in addition to writing a Letter of Caution to the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in the state on the situation. (NAN) PDP Raises the Alarm over Plots to Arrest Members in Bauchi 1:31pm By Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that it has credible intelligence that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has plotted to use ‘compromised security’ personnel for a mass arrest of top PDP leaders in Bauchi state. The party in a statement Saturday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said that it was part of the plan  to put them out of circulation and enable the APC have a field day to rig the supplementary election. According to him, “The PDP leaders earmarked for the illegal mass arrest by the APC include but not limited to Alhaji Bello Kirfi, Senator Abdul Ningi, Senator Suleiman Nazif, Senator Isa Hamma Misau, Alhaji Hamza Akuyam, PDP Bauchi State Chairman, Hon Salisu Zakari Ningi, Hon Ahmed Yerima, Hon Samaila Burgah, Hon Aminu Tukur as well as PDP leaders and agents in the 29 polling units where elections are holding in the state.” Ologbondiyan stressed that the party had also been informed of plots by the APC to unleash its thugs and compromised security agents to storm polling units between 1pm to 3pm to snatch election materials and change results and take them to INEC office in Bauchi for collation and announcement. The party however stated that such underhand scheme by the APC would not deter it from standing firm in resisting all aggression and consolidating on our already established victory in Bauchi state. The party added that Nigerians should hold the APC responsible should any harm befall any of its leaders or members in Bauchi state during and after the elections. Ologbondiyan noted that all party members in the state  were monitoring the electoral process; stressing that the party would never allow any alteration of results as delivered at the polling units and that nobody, no matter the machination deployed, can rig us out in this election. This led to chaos in the supplementary poll for the  Sokoto North local government area of Sokoto state. The presence of party Chieftains, Alhaji Murtala Daniya of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and two All Progressives Congress (APC)  chieftains, Alhaji Abdullahi Hassan, a one time chairman of Sokoto North LGA and APC youth leader, Nasiru Italiya, at the polling center disrupted the procesess. Police had to use teargas on the crowd and deploy  more personnel before normalcy was restored after the election was put on hold for about three hours. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Daniya of the PDP,  who was among the early voters, displayed his ballot sheet to the  public, a situation that led to throwing  of sand and objects at  INEC officials, security men and the party chieftains. The Presiding Officer, Mr Otu Cassius, told NAN that they reported  for election duty as early as 7 a.m and that  screening and voting commenced simultaneously as there were no hitches with the card reader. Cassius, a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, said the processes were well until the incident. A PDP agent at the polling unit, Alhaji Bashiru Abdulkadir, told NAN that it was right for Daniya to publicly display what he voted because even a presidential candidate did it after voting in the just concluded presidential election. However, the APC agent Muntari Muhammad, opposed the position, stressing that  it violated electoral laws and said he had lodged a complaint to the authorities. NAN reports that voting went smoothly at Sarkin Yaki Polling unit 008 in Sarkin
Musulmi Ward ‘B’ and Danhilin Hubbare polling unit 004 also in Sarkin Musulmi Ward ‘B’ in Sokoto North LGA. The presiding officers at the units, Ahmad Hassan and Sa’adatu Adamu, said they reported early and election commenced at 8 a.m. APC State Treasurer, Alhaji Haruna Adiya, who voted at Kyafe polling unit 008 in Magajin Rafi ward ‘B’, urged authorities to deploy more security men to regulate the rowdy situation. Mr Zakari Umar, the Supervisor of Domestic Election Observer in Sokoto North LGA, said the processes were orderly in line with regulations. Umar, who is from YAGA Africa said incident forms were being compiled to be reported to relevant authorities. NAN gathered that vote buying became the order of the day at Rajiya polling unit 004 in Sokoto South local government area. The situation led to the arrival of  the State Commissioner of Police, Mr Garba Danjuma, and other security chiefs at the polling unit. ASP. Muhammad Sadiq, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) assured that the situation was under control. “In every election we expect some challenges but presently the situation is under control as you can see. “We will tackle all irregularities and maintain the peaceful atmosphere through out the exercise, ” he said. In  separate interviews, the state Commissioner of Finance and Higher Education Alhaji Sa’idu Umar and Prof. A’isha Madawaki urged security agencies to remain vigilant in ensuring the success of the re-run. They expressed confidence in the overall process and urged INEC and other stakeholders to play the game by the rules. NAN reports that  Police directive on restriction of vehicular movements from 8 a.m to 6 p.m was flouted. The supplementary elections witnessed high turnout generally, but amidst security challenges, with residents calling for deployment of more security personnel. The rerun is  being conducted in 135 polling units across 22 local government areas of the state to determine who wins the governorship seat. (NAN) Low Turnout of Voters in Benue 1:06pm The ongoing Governorship and State House of Assembly supplementary elections in most polling units in Local Government Areas (LGA’s) across Benue has been characterised by low turnout of voters, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. NAN correspondents, who monitored the polls on Saturday in Makurdi, Gwer, Otukpo local government areas, report that the turnout was poor compared to the Presidential and National Assembly polls in the state. In some polling units, there were no queues as those who came to vote were promptly attended to by polling unit officials. NAN reports that normal commercial activities were ongoing at Taraku and Aliade in Gwer East LGA, where the supplementary poll was ongoing in Mbalom council ward. Vehicles were seen loading bags of fermented wet cassava paste (Akpu) to other rural markets for sale. In Otukpo town, the general mood did not reflect the conduct of any election in the place. The Otukpo motor park was as usual beehive of activities while motorcycle operators were busy conveying passengers to their destinations. Shops and other businesses were also conducting their normal routine business activities. Some of the voters blamed the low turnout on what they termed ” politicians’ deceitful ways”.(NAN)  Voting Underway in Ibeju-Lekki Area of Lagos
12:53am Voters came out in trickles at Ibeju-Lekki state constituency I, where supplementary elections held in Lagos State on Saturday. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who monitored the election reports that accreditation and voting commenced at 8:00am at Polling Units 001, 003, 004, 005, and 006 of Ward 01, Ibeju Registration Area. Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and materials arrived the polling units before 8:0am and the units were open at 8:00am. Security personnel, comprising Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence corps(NSCDC) and Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) were also around to provide security in all the polling units. The voter turnout was however low as INEC officials on ground were seen waiting for voters to come out to vote. Voters were trickling into the polling units at 10:00am in most of the polling units. Baale Erinle Kazeem of Okegun Odofin in Ibeju-Lekki said he was sure that the supplementary election would be peaceful. The traditional ruler, who cast his vote at about 10:00am at polling until 001 of Ward 01, however, said that the notice for the supplementary election was short. He said that many of the youths and residents of the area had left for the Lagos metropolis for different engagements. Mrs Fatimon Ashafa, APC agent at PU 001 said: “We were not aware of this supplementary election until Thursday and we went out to inform our people, though the notice was too late.” The PDP agent, Mr Suru Fashinu, at same unit told NAN that the supplementary election had never happened in the area and most residents were not aware of it. Fashinu, who adjudged the election to be free and fair, expressed concern over the low voter turnout. Mrs Gbemisola Omoshola, the PDP agent at PU 006 at the junction of Ajewole said that the election had been smooth without any problem. Omoshola said “I am satisfied with the process but people are not coming out because it is a supplementary election.” Prince Adeshina Anisere, the APC agent at the same unit said: “Everything is going on peacefully, we are together and one with other parties. No fight and argument.” Mr Omoku Ijaodola, PDP agent at PU 004 located in the premises of customary court, Ibeju-Lekki said that the election had been free and fair since it started at 8:00am, while his counterpart Mr Akinlabi Akinkunmi in PU005 affirmed same. Mr Saheed Ijaodola, APC agent at 005, said “People are coming to exercise their franchise, we are happy with the peaceful conduct.” NAN reports that INEC is conducting supplementary election in nine polling units of Ibeju-Lekki state constituency I for the Lagos State House of Assembly seat. The commission had declared the March 9 house of assembly election in the constituency inconclusive because of over-voting in the nine polling units covering two Registration Areas (Ward) of the constituency. The affected polling units in Ibeju Registration Area I are polling units 001, 003, 004, 005, 006, and 009, while that of Iwerekun Registration Area I are polling units 002, 004, and 005 (NAN) 12:47pm Tudun Wada polling unit 027, in Jos North Local Government of Plateau, has witnessed a large turnout of voters in the on-going rerun election to determine the state’s governor.
A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who visited the polling point, reports that accreditation and voting started early, while the officials arrived the area before 7 a.m. NAN also observed that the voters were orderly and peaceful. According to the presiding officer, Ima-obong Ernest, the polling unit has a voting strength of 1,297 voters. Some of the local observers, who spoke to NAN, said that the turnout was encouraging and commendable. “We actually thought that people will not come out en masse, but here we are with a huge crowd of people anxious to vote,” an observer told NAN. A voter, Mike Ekong, told NAN that the security arrangement was stringent and intense to avoid any form of distraction. (NAN) 12:44pm A large turnout of voters has been witnessed in the ongoing rerun election to determine who will represent Keffi East in the Nasarawa State House of Assembly. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN), who visited Makera polling unit at Angwan Rimi ward, the only voting point where the rerun was being held, found many voters waiting on the queue to vote. NAN recalls that on March 10, INEC declared the result of Keffi East Constituency inclusive. The SDP candidate, Abdullazi Sule, was leading his APC counterpart, Mohammed Wada, with 97 votes, while 1052 votes were canceled. Sule scored 7234 votes, while Wada had 7137. Mr Bala Kabiru, a voter, who spoke with NAN, expressed happiness with the orderliness of the process. “I am happy that I have just voted. I have voted the candidate of my choice,” he said. Musa Salisu, another voter, said that the conduct of the election was satisfactory. “I voted around 8: 40am and I am happy that I did that on time and can go home to do other things.” Miss Aisha Aliyu, another voter, also expressed happiness with the conduct of the exercise so far. She expressed optimism that the exercise would be peaceful (NAN) 12:39pm The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has put on hold,  the supplementary elections in Brass Constituency 1 following a court order to include omitted units in the area. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Federal High Court in Yenagoa had on Friday, ordered the Electoral Commission to include omitted polling units in the supplementary elections in the constituency. In a statement on Saturday, Mr Monday Udoh, the Bayelsa REC,  announced that out of the three constituencies earlier scheduled for the polls, election was now holding in two, including Southern-Ijaw IV and Ogbia 11. “INEC wishes to inform the good people of Bayelsa that the supplementary polls to conclude results in three constituencies namely: Brass 1, Ogbia 11, and Souther-Ijaw IV, is holding on March 23 with the exception of Brass 1. “The conduct of supplementary in Brass 1, ward 6 polling units 11-16 has been put on hold by an interlocutory order of the Federal High Court in Yenagoa in suit No: FHC/YNG/CS/41/2019 and dated march 22. “The supplementary elections in the other two constituencies are holding as scheduled. We wish to inform that necessary arrangements are already in place for a hitch free exercise in those two constituencies. “As law abiding agency, the commission will inform the stakeholders as soon as the court order is dispensed with on Brass constituency 1,” the REC explained. (NAN)  Police Patrol Kano Streets to Enforce Restriction of Movement Order 12:10pm Security has been beefed up in and around Kano metropolis as the governorship rerun progresses in parts of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that armed policemen deployed to enforce the restriction of human and vehicular movement are patrolling some of the major streets of the city to ensure total compliance of the order. Some of the security personnel were also seen covering some of the areas believed to be volatile even though the election is not taking place there. The policemen have also been stationed along some major streets of the city. Most of the residents of the city have complied with restriction of movement order. NAN reports that some journalists covering the poll had earlier escaped lynching by some suspected thugs at Suntulma Primary School in Gama ward of Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. The newsmen who were in the area to monitor the exercise were chased out of the place by the hoodlums. The rerun is being conducted to decide the winner between two candidates – Abba Kabir-Yusuf of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 1,014,477 votes, and incumbent Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who got 987,810 votes in the first poll conducted on March 9. The margin between the candidates stood at 26,655 votes in favour of Kabir-Yusuf. (NAN)  Large Turnout of Voters in Nasarawa Rerun Poll 11:59am A large turnout of voters has been witnesed in the ongoing rerun election to determine who will represent Keffi East in the Nasarawa State House of Assembly. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who visited Makera polling unit at Angwan Rimi ward, the only voting point where the rerun was being held, found many voters waiting on the queue to vote. On March 10, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the result of Keffi East Constituency inclusive. The Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Abdullazi Sule, was leading his All Progressives Congress (APC) counterpart, Mohammed Wada, with 97 votes, while 1,052 votes were cancelled. Sule scored 7,234 votes, while Wada had 7,137. Mr Bala Kabiru, a voter, who spoke with NAN, expressed happiness with the orderliness of the process. “I am happy that I have just voted. I have voted the candidate of my choice,” he said. Musa Salisu, another voter, said that the conduct of the election was satisfactory. “I voted around 8:40am and I am happy that I did that on time and cand go home to do other things,” he said. Miss Aisha Aliyu, another voter, also expressed happiness with the conduct of the exercise so far.  Journalists Escape Lynching in Kano 11:19am Some journalists covering the Supplementary Governorship election in Kano State on Saturday escaped lynching by some suspected thugs at Suntulma Primary School in Gama ward of Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. NAN reports that the journalists who were in the area to monitor the poll, were chased out of the place by the hoodlums. Trouble began when some of the newsmen tried to interview some voters who were denied access into the classrooms where some of the polling units were stationed. While trying to flee the troubled area, some of the journalists fell on ground and one of them (Name withheld), had to take refuge in a nearby Mosque in order to save his life. NAN also reports that some of the reporters had their clothes torn by the thugs. Speaking to newsmen, some voters alleged that they were not allowed to exercise their franchise as they were chased out of the area. One of them, Comrade Aminu Tijjani, said he went to the primary school to cast his vote at his polling unit but had to return to escape the hoodlums’ attack. “The situation is very bad and this is not how to conduct an election where people or voters are denied the opportunity to vote,” Tijjani said. Another voter, Sani Abdullahi, said he came to vote as early as 8 a.m. but was scared away by the suspected thugs numbering about 10. Meanwhile, voting has commenced in other affected polling units across the 28 local government areas of the state. NAN reports that the re-run election is being conducted to decide the winner between two candidates – Abba Kabir-Yusuf of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 1,014,477 votes, and incumbent Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who got 987,810 votes in the first poll conducted on March 9. The margin between the candidates stood at 26,655 votes in favour of Kabir-Yusuf. (NAN)  Plateau Police Boss Says Election Going on Peacefully 11:00 am Plateau Commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyode, has said that supplementary election in the state is so far going on peacefully. Akinmoyode said this on Saturday in Jos in an interview with newsmen when led top security personnel to monitor the election. According to him, so far the election is going on peaceful in all parts of the state. “We hope that it will be peaceful till the results are collated and the winner is declared. “We have adequate security personnel at every polling unit where election is ongoing. “People should not be afraid of the security, they are there to give them confidence to come and vote. “The security are here to protect the people, they are here to secure INEC staff and materials,” he siad. On shutting down of the entire state for just 40 polling units where elections are taking place, Akinmoyode said that measure was to ensure peaceful and successful election. He said that the command had credible information that some people were planning to interfere with the process. The CP said that it was better to sacrifice a day to get what we want than to fail. Akinmoyode said that there was likelihood that people may move from areas where elections are not taking place to cause trouble where elections are holding. “We have security report and it behoves on us to take the right decision or allow the thing to happen before we start running helter shelter,” he said. (NAN)  Thugs Disrupt Voting in Kano 10:30am Attack journalists By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Some thugs welding weapons on Saturday morning, dispersed voters at Suntulma Gama primary school in Nasarawa local government area of Kano State. The thugs, who wore tags that identified them as agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC), were seen carrying weapons and dispersing voters, including journalists who were covering the election. The thugs attacked a journalist working with The Authority Newspaper, Mr Maduabuchi Nmeribe, and Nigerian Tribune Newspaper correspondent, Mr Kola Oyelere, at Suntulma Gama ward. They were however rescued by good Samaritans Details shortly… Heavy Security as Voting Begins in Makurdi 10:00 am Security operatives have blocked all major streets within Makurdi township as part of measures to enforce the restriction of movement order within the period of the supplementary elections in the state. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who went round Makurdi township reports that all entry and exit points in the town were blocked to prevent unauthorised movement of people and vehicles. Armed security personnel were seen at the Wurukum, Highlevel, NorthBank, Wadata market and other major streets in Makurdi to ensure compliance with the directive. NAN also reports that there is heavy presence of armed security personnel on Makurdi-Gboko road. Meanwhile, voting has commenced in most polling units in Makurdi. NAN reports that the Governorship supplementary election is holding in 22 of the 23 Local Government Areas of the state, while that of the State House of Assembly is ongoing in 9 local government areas. At the Modern Market polling unit, Ternamdoo Primary school, voters were seen on queue waiting to vote. The Presiding Officer of the unit, Mr Akinlabi Adebanjo, said all electoral materials arrived on time and accreditation and voting commenced at 8:02 a.m. ” Everything is in order, all materials are complete. This election is for the Governorship and agents of the most popular parties are all here,” Adebanjo said. Mr Terver Kighir, the All Progressives Congress (APC) agent, corroborated the views of the presiding officer, saying, ” everything is calm, if the elections continue like this, then, there will be no problem.” On his part, Mr Bernard Unenge, the agent of the People’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP), commended INEC for the smooth exercise. Unenge, who is the commissioner for Lands, Survey and Minerals, also commended the electoral umpire for the smooth commencement of the polls. At the All Saints Primary school polling unit, the presiding officer, Mr Japheth Zibo, also said the process was going on smoothly.(NAN) 