Ugo Aliogo As part of activities to mark the 125th anniversary of First Bank, the financial institution recently organised 125km relay walk across the country and its overseas subsidiaries. The Chairman of First Bank Plc, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, noted that the relay walk gave the bank an opportunity to look forward to the future. Awosika, who stated this while speaking at the relay walk to celebrate the bank’s unbroken business operations, noting that it has been a relay of different generation building, adding value and passing the baton forward. In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Adeshola Adeduntan, said the relay walk was significant and symbolic for the bank. He said it was symbolic because it is a collaborative effort not just for First Bank, but other operating entities within the FBN holdings family such as FBNQuest, and FBN Merchant bank. Adeduntan added: “We came together to organise the relay. The significance is that when you think of a relay and you think of 125km, if you want to run 125km as an individual, you can get tired, but when you collaborate together, and the bits and pieces of the 125 is accomplished by different individuals, that is the power of synergy in display and it shows you what can achieved when you walk together as a team.” The CEO explained that the relay depicted the fact that over 125years, the leadership of the institution has moved from one individual to another and one generation to another. He added that the bank was using the relay to pass the baton of leadership to the next generation of the bank staff, “depicting the fact that the bank tends to be in existence for another 125 years.” According to Adeduntan, “We came together to organise the relay. The significance is that when you think of a relay and you think of 125km, if you want to run 125km as an individual, you can get tired, but when you collaborate together, and the bits and pieces of the 125 is accomplished by different individuals, that is the power of synergy in display and it shows you what can achieved when you walk together as a team.”