Hours after the results of the national assembly elections in Oyo State were announced, with Governor Abiola Ajimobi, the only member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the state to lose his seat, he made a video to accept defeat, congratulate the winner and talk about his next plan. According to the governor who proudly calls himself ‘Ko Se Le Ri’ (Never seen before) to underscore that he is the only governor of the state to complete a second term, he had given his best to the state and deserves to rest, reminding those in his presence that he would soon be 70, as his wife snuggled up to him like a lovelorn teenager. The governor would turn 70 in December 2019. He lost a bid to represent the Oyo South Senatorial District, a seat he occupied between 2003 and 2007 during which he was deputy minority leader. Keen watchers of the Oyo State political scene say Ajimobi may have been sent on political retirement. At 70, sources say he would not make the ministerial consideration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Again, he did not deliver Oyo State to the president which Alhaji Atiku Abubakar won with a sizeable margin. The greatest beneficiary of Ajimobi’s retirement would be his wife, Florence, originally a Lebanese, but was born and raised in Nigeria. She has been married to Governor Ajimobi for more than 35 years. Apart from his aides and political followers, the greatest losers would be the governor’s extravagant children, particularly, the glamorous Abisola, who is married to billionaire industrialist, Kola Daisi’s son, Kolapo. Abisola is a fashion-loving young lady who spares no expense in her jet-set lifestyle. She is the CEO of Florence H/AKD Lifestyle, a Christian Louboutin shoe shop on the island named after her mother. She counts among her friends American reality television show stars, the Kardashian stars and had appeared on their popular Keeping Up with the Kardashian Show a couple of times. Her best friend, Malika, is also best friends with Khloe Kardashian. Regarded as one of the ‘Rich Kids of Instagram’, her IG page drips sheer luxury, high-end fashion, lavish living and globetrotting. Ajibola, her younger sister and mother of twin boys, is more reserved but no less glamorous. When she gave birth to her twins in 2016, the governor put everything else on hold to celebrate their arrival with a lavish party in his Abuja residence. Ajibola got married in 2015 to Ayokunle, son of the late Justice Ajayi. It was a destination wedding that held in Beirut, Lebanon and another in Ibadan. Her gold-sequinned gown designed by Lebanese luxury fashion label, Elie Saab is reportedly worth N25million. Sources close to the governor say his kids need not worry as he has settled them for life with investments and savings.