Spanish aristocrats, Real Madrid, will today, host their eternal rivals, Barcelona, at the Santiago Bernabeu in the 178th El Clasico.  The famous rivalry between the two teams, which takes centre stage in Round 26 of the 2018/19 La Liga season, will be broadcast live and exclusive to GOtv MAX subscribers on SuperSport Select 4 (channel 34) at 8:45p.m. This would be the second LaLiga clash between the two rivals this season following the 5-1 win for Barcelona in October. Barcelona, the defending champions and current league leaders, will be buoyed by their 4-2 victory away at Sevilla last week. The Los Blaugrana, who are seeking their 18th win of the season, will be led into battle by captain Lionel Messi, who currently tops the LaLiga goal chart with 25 goals. But Real Madrid cannot be dismissed as no-hopers despite their patchy form this season. The Los Blancos, currently third on the log, trail Barcelona by a massive 12 points. Santiago Solari’s men will be encouraged by their hard-fought 2-1 win against Levante last Sunday and will need no other motivation to halt, even temporarily, their rival’s progress. They will rely on their talented strike force of Karim Benzema, Vinícius Jnr. and the resurgent Gareth Bale to deliver the much-needed goals. Form, however, rarely matters in the El Clasico, as it is a game traditionally runs on passion and near-tribal rivalry. Martin Mabutho, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, explained that the broadcast of the high-profile match to GOtv MAX subscribers is a way of giving football fans access to the best Spanish football live. “Real Madrid and Barcelona are the most famous teams in Spain and have huge following in Nigeria. Being the home of La Liga, we are delighted to bring to our subscribers the El Clasico on GOtv MAX,” he said. Mabutho urged GOtv subscribers, especially those on GOtv Plus, Value and Lite packages, to take advantage of the “Top Up” campaign and upgrade to GOtv MAX by paying a reduced fee of N2, 500 in order to have access to the game and other exciting programmes. Today’s games include: Espanyol versus Valladolid (showing at 1 pm on SuperSport Select 2 and 4); Villarreal versus Alaves (showing at 4:15 pm on SuperSport Select 4); Huesca versus Sevilla (showing at 6:30 pm on SuperSport Select 4). Games to be broadcast on Sunday are Eibar versus Celta Vigo (showing at 12 noon on SuperSport Select 2 and 4); Real Betis versus Getafe (showing at 4:15 pm on SuperSport Select 4); Real Sociedad versus Atletico Madrid (showing at 6:30 pm on SuperSport Select 4); and Valencia versus Athletic Bilbao (showing at 8:45 pm on SuperSport Select 4).