Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City As part of efforts to explore alternative power sources and mainstream innovative youths in community-focused projects, the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration in Edo State has commenced the installation of 1.5 KVA solar power boxes developed by youths at the Edo Innovation Hub, across 100 rural schools in the state. The solar power boxes were developed by Green Fusion Energy Limited, a company that emerged from innovation and business grooming at the Edo Innovation Hub, Benin City, and is providing solar energy for students in rural areas. The state government set up the hub to attend to the yearnings of technology innovators in the state, and it is providing opportunities for youths to co-create and develop solutions to local problems. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Skills Development and Job Creation, Mrs. Ukinebo Dare, said the solar box was developed by a team at the hub, which has now grown into a full-fledged company delivering power solutions. She added that the installation of the solar boxes in rural schools across the state was a fulfilment of Obaseki’s pledge to the team after they impressed him during a pitch competition.
According to her, the solar boxes are being installed in 100 schools under the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) by Green Fusion engineers, while 50 other youths are undergoing training in different communities where the boxes are being installed. She said the beneficiary schools include Aleye Primary School, Etsako Central Local Government Area (LGA); Akugbe Primary School, Etsako Central LGA; Efolo Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA; Afekunu Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA; Agbanehumu Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA. Others are Abe Primary School, Orhionmwon LGA; Akengbuda Primary School, Urora in Ikpoba-Okha LGA; Akugbe Primary School, Ikpoba-Okha LGA; Adolor Primary School, Evboro; Binidodogha Primary School, Ovia South West LGA; Aden River Primary School, Ovia South West LGA, among others. Dare added that the installation has been completed in Aibotise Primary School in Etsako West LGA, while installation is ongoing in Agbomoba Primary School, Agbomoba; and Abesi Primary School in Ovia South West LGA.