Francis Sardauna in Katsina The winner of the Katsina State governorship election, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has reaffirmed his commitment to improved security, empowerment and education just as he assured the people that he would run an all-inclusive government in his second term. In a state-wide broadcast last Monday night, Masari described his victory as a vote of confidence and affirmation of trust which his administration succeeded in achieving in the last three years. The governor-elect, who expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the election, said: “As we move to the next level, I wish to reassure you of our commitment to continue to promote good governance in our state and to prioritise the education sector, empowerment as well as the security of our people.” The state Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Abdullahi Abdu Zuru, who is also the Vice Chancellor of Usman Danfodio University Sokoto, had last Monday declared Masari winner of the election, having scored the highest number of votes cast in the election. Prof. Zuru said Masari polled 1,178,864 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sen. Yakubu Lado Danmarke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 488,621 votes. Masari, while addressing the people of the state on both radio and television, said the democratic environment created by the APC under which the election was held, was a clear indication of the great political development that has occurred in the past three years of his administration. He added: “Our success in this election would not have been possible without the general support and contribution of millions of our party loyalists, supporters and well-wishers. In particular, I will like to pay tributes to the tireless effort of our campaign council. “Our party leaders, elders, stakeholders, religious leaders, traditional rulers, NGOs, political groups and associations at all levels also contributed significantly in this electoral victory. “As we celebrate our victory, it is important to cushion our people that the contest was not between enemies. In Katsina State, we do not have losers, everyone is a winner.”