James Sowole in Akure Sigma Pensions Limited Wednesday said welfare of contributors being managed by the company remains priority to the organisation. The Senior Business Development Manager (West) of the company, Mr John Igiehon, said this yesterday in Akure, Ondo State, at a sensitisation forum for retirees and prospective retirees in Ondo and Ekiti states. Igiehon, who urged contributors not to hesitate in pointing out any problem they may encounter in their dealings with the company, stated that the company would not relent in efforts to satisfy contributors. The event tagged, “Agenda for the Retirees,” had in attendance over 500 participants from the two states and who interacted freely with the company’s management. Igiehon, said Sigma which was licensed in 2005 was preparing the pensioners for the future on what they should know as regards their pensions and be able take critical decisions. “The main purpose of us bringing you together today is to educate our retirees and prospective retirees on what they should know about their pensions so that when it comes, you will know what to do. “We have been in operation since 2005 and we doing our best to give our pensioners deserved benefits after retirement. We ensure that all our books are correct and we don’t involve in fraudulent acts,” he said. Also speaking, the Head Business Development Division (West), Mrs Mabel George, noted that Sigma wants to show that pensioners are still relevant in retirement. She added that the company also ensures that those still in service have seamless path to retirement, stressing the need for them to be properly educated. “We want to keep in the touch with the retirees and let them know that though, they are retired we care for them. “The second category of people we also cater for are those nearing retirement to enlighten them on the requirements and the steps they need to take before they retire. “We want to have better educated retirees and for us to show that care benefitting from our medical services and the rest. We are here today for Ondo and Ekiti and our next stop is Kwara state. “These people are important to us as an administrator and their happiness after retirement; this is what we want.We educate them how to access retirement savings,their duties and the rest.” The chairman of the occasion, Suleiman Aliyu, described Sigma as the best pension administrator in the country,urging those retired to inform their colleagues who are about to retire about it. One of the pensioners, Mr.Olaniyi Fanuse, commended Sigma for the forum, adding that the event had exposed him to those things he needed to know as a retirees.