The Qualifier for the ninth edition of the annual Daniel Ogechi Akujobi Memorial Foundation (DOAMF) Charity Golf Tournament has been scheduled for Saturday, March 2, 2019 at the Golf Section of Ikoyi Club 1938 in Lagos. Participants at the Qualifier will be hoping to pick slots in the Draw for the Final of the event billed for March 30, 2019 at the same venue.‎ Thousands of lives have been touched through the annual golf event that pulls golfers together to commit to charitable projects through the DOAMF platform and, the organisers are looking forward to another year of impacting indigent communities through the game of golf. The Coordinator of the Organising Committee, Pat Bassey, said that the Foundation hopes to leverage this year’s tournament to break new grounds in the number of people reached and to sustain the tradition of accountability to all stakeholders. “From the proceeds of the 2018 event the Foundation reached more than 2,500 people, of which 14 were added to its full academic scholarship roll – making a total of 26 beneficiaries on the Scholarship Support programme. “In the year 2018, eight beneficiaries of this programme successfully graduated from various universities and polytechnics. The scholarship recipients are in all tiers of education, from primary through tertiary education. The goal this year is to raise the bar on all fronts. “We are also very pleased to have committed volunteers come out yearly to serve passionately, in addition to committing financial and material support, helping us meet and serve the less privileged. “A number of them are very busy corporate executives and business owners who make out time to serve, being evidence of strong identification with the objective of bettering our society through the DOAM Foundation,” stressed the Coordinator. The funds generated through the DOAMF Charity Golf events are channeled to support social causes in the specific areas of education, health and medical intervention within needy families and communities. Bassey also highlighted some of the projects embarked on in 2018 which included; free medical treatments carried out for indigenes of Wera Community, Ikorodu, Lagos State and replicated outside Lagos State, for indigenes of Alamala Community, Abeokuta, Ogun State, and which impacted on more than a thousand beneficiaries comprised of children, youth, adults and senior citizens. “The Foundation also held educational programmes for students of Randle Senior Secondary School, Apapa Senior Secondary School, and United Christian Senior Secondary School, all in Lagos, where entrepreneurial and social skills, and etiquette, were taught in addition to donations made to the schools,” he added. Bassey concluded by saying: “For us, we measure progress in terms of value received by the beneficiaries of the Foundation’s initiatives and the number of people impacted. As in prior years, the goal is to reach further and create more impact on deserving families and communities. So we need more support and, as always, we are committed to work even harder.”