Okon Bassey in Uyo
The Youth Development Fund Bill aimed at creating jobs and evolves greater opportunities for youths in Akwa Ibom State has been passed into law by the State House of Assembly. In passing the bill into law, the Speaker of the State Assembly, Hon Onofiok Luke, lauded the Youth Alive Foundation and other youth groups in the state for proposing the bill with Hon Emmanuel Ekpenyong, as lead-sponsor. The speaker said: “We told them in 2015 that we will always be on their side. There could not have been a better way to reflect that commitment to them other than to pass into law the bill to implement a sustainable youth policy framework. “It has been a mark of honour on the sixth Assembly that in passing this bill, we have given verve to our economy to attract foreign direct investments into youth development ventures in our state.” Luke, equally expressed confident that the law would be a direct catalyst for economic growth of the state, and urged the people of the state to take advantage of the legislature to propose laws that could positively affect the generality of the people. “As the People’s Assembly, we have in the last couple of years presented this House as an instrument for positive exploitation by the people. “And the Youth Alive Foundation have utilised this avenue very exemplarily. I urge Akwa Ibom people to take a cue from the example by these young Akwa Ibom people.” he added. In another development, the State House of Assembly has also ratified the Auditor General Report on the state Audited Account for 2017. The ratification of the audited account for the state followed the submission of the statement of account of the state for the 2017 fiscal year by the state Accountant General, through the Public Account Committee.
This, according to the Speaker was in line with the provisions of Section 125 (5) (6) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said having considered the expenditure of government as captured in the report, the house had put a legislative seal on the state audited account for 2017. By the approval, Luke said the Assembly has “expressed the satisfaction of our various constituents with the fiscal health of this administration.”
He said the House would be looking forward to auditing the state account for 2018 before the expiration of the assembly in June, 2019.