Pinnacle Communications, Nigeria’s leading digital broadcast technology company, has signed an agreement with top American firm, GatesAir, to continue the digital TV build-out across the nation. The agreement with GatesAir, which produces wireless, over-the-air content delivery solutions for radio and TV broadcasters, will allow the expansion of new digital TV services and the Digital Switch-Over initiative. The expansion is expected to reach more than 50 million homes and 170 million residents. The licensed signal distributor for the DSO in Nigeria, Pinnacle Communications, brought a delegation to the GatesAir’s Quincy’s manufacturing facility in the US last Friday to see the next-generation product designs and readiness to complete greenfield build-outs. GatesAir has had a relationship with Pinnacle Communications since 1998 to launch TV and FM radio systems across Nigeria. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle Communications, Mr. Lucky Omoluwa, highlighted his company’s long relationship with Gates-Air, especially the quality. “Sometime in 2016, we had 12 weeks to deliver a station,” Omoluwa said, adding that “all the transmitters were from here. We didn’t do any site testing. We just plugged them in, and they’re still on.” The Chief Executive Officer of GatesAir, Bruce Swail, said half of the products GatesAir produces are for international customers. “The broadcasting technology created and built here in Quincy has a huge transformative impact across the globe, and as a result, a lot of people around the world are grateful to Quincy.” The Managing Director of GatesAir for the Europe/Middle East/Africa Region, Andy McClelland, said GatesAir has been on the digital path with Pinnacle for a short time, but will be on it for years to come. “A state-of-the-art, digital, terrestrial television platform being rolled out in the heart of Africa that can be the envy of not only Africa but of Europe,” McClelland said. Quincy Mayor Kyle Moore told the group that he was proud to see GateAir’s partnerships around the globe. “They have the ability to deliver on very large programs with the upmost integrity. With 97 years of history in our community, you have chosen the right partner to support your efforts of the digital switch over in Nigeria,” Moore said.