Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN), the leading operator of the SHI-MCI fabrication and integration yard, has won a highly commended award for the contribution to the development of regional maritime Cluster at the prestigious Sea trade Maritime Awards Middle East, Indian Subcontinent & Africa held in Dubai on September 22, 2019. Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria has committed to empowering the African oil and gas industry through local content leadership. Prior to the construction of the company’s fabrication and integration yard in Lagos, customers in the regional oil and gas industry had to work outside of Africa. In order to complete the Egina FPSO project, significant investment was needed to develop a local workforce and facilities. These have become the core of a world-class marine construction capability that benefits all shipping and marine construction and maintenance companies in the region with greater access to opportunities as well as providing economic stimulus to the whole West African region. The Sea trade Maritime Awards are recognised internationally as the most influential in the industry with a very robust selection process led by independent judging panels consisting of CEOs from maritime companies around the world. An impressive list of nominees was shortlisted, from over 120 entries across 20 countries, made it to 2019’s shortlist. Over 200 industry and governmental representatives from attended the award ceremony across Africa, the Middle East and the Indian Subcontinent. This Maritime Cluster award is an encouraging acknowledgement of the significant work SHIN has done in initiating collaboration with the Nigerian government and local partners to improve the profile of Nigeria as the most advanced integration and fabrication hub in Africa. The company has already been receiving worldwide recognition, winning multiple national and international awards for its dedication in bringing about economic and local talent development. It has received notable accolades from the Nigerian Content Board, NOGOF and Africa Assembly Paris hosted by World Energy Council. The judges noted that Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria Limited was commended for its contribution to the development of maritime cluster award, they also took a moment to congratulate Samsung for being shortlisted for the awards. After successfully delivering the Egina, the world’s largest FPSO, SHIN’s next focus is to widen its integration and fabrication work for the on- and off-shore oil & gas industry as well as power and infrastructure projects. The high profile generated from this award will also drive increased interest among the maritime industry into the immense potential and capability of Nigeria and indeed the whole West African region, showing what they have to offer to international customers. This will continue to stimulate local employment, on going talent development and vocational training to continue performing at international standards. Commenting on the award, Managing Director of Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria, Mr. Jejin Jeon, said “it is a great honour to be recognised for our contribution to the development of the Regional Maritime Cluster in Africa. Empowering the African oil and gas and maritime industry in practice means developing the capacity to deliver world-class work locally. We hope the SHI-MCI yard with its international standard marine construction capability can play a role in stimulating even more opportunities”. Samsung was the only nominee from Africa to be listed for four individual awards. The nominations covered: Shipyard of the Year Award, which recognises excellence in new building and/or repair yards in the Middle East, Indian Subcontinent and Africa. Contribution to Development of the Regional Maritime Cluster Award which recognises a company, association, individual or system that has made a substantial contribution to strengthening the links between the region’s maritime elements. Africa Maritime Award, which recognises an organisation that has made a significant positive impact on the maritime industry within Africa. Education and Training Award, which recognises an educational institution, commercial organisation or an individual that has made a major contribution to maritime education and training in the region. 