Airtel Nigerianhas donated phones bundled with SIMs and airtime to the second batch of returnees who arrived from South Africa recently. Airtel said the donation was a measure to assist the returnees settle down as well as help them make instant connection with their loved ones, family members and friends across the country. The Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Airtel Nigeria, Segun Ogunsanya, described the donation as “a token of our affection, love and support for our fellow countrymen who are just coming out of a difficult situation. It is our hope that this gesture will help them reconnect with their family and friends and settle down to life at home. Airtel is committed to supporting laudable causes that will inspire and uplift more Nigerians. We are pleased to identify with the returnees and to help make them feel at home after what they have passed through.” The Airtel team was at the Airport to welcome the second batch of returnees as well as perform the customary SIM card registration exercise in fulfilment of the Nigerian Communications Commission’s (NCC) guidelines on owning a phone line. The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, commended Airtel for extending a helping hand to the returnees, saying that other corporate organizations should emulate the telco in helping the returnees settle down to life in their home country. “Airtel has always taken proactive steps to help returnees. When we had returnees from Libya, Airtel was on hand to offer support; and now, they are offering similar support to the South African returnees. Aside these, they are also partnering with the Commission to further help Nigerians in the Diaspora. I commend Airtel for taking these fine steps,” she said. One of the returnees, Olasukanmi Obadina, was full of praises for Airtel as he commended the telco for showing love and care. “Airtel’s action is really thoughtful considering all that we have been through. I am really encouraged by the love and support Airtel has extended to me and other returnees,” he said.