The Edo State Chapter of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) has said it will collaborate with the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) to ensure pupils and students attend classes during school hours. Chairman of the Union, Comrade Roland Osakwe, said the partnership will ensure that no child hawks and engages in farm work during school hours in the state. Osakwe said this during the Back-to-School Rally organised by SUBEB across major streets and markets in Benin City, the Edo State capital. He noted that the state government has invested a lot in revamping the basic education sector, stressing that pupils and students need to be in their classes to benefit from the initiatives of the state government which have improved learning and teaching outcomes in schools in the state. Osakwe commended the Back-to-School Rally while describing education as a light which every child should have access to. In her remarks, Executive Chairman, SUBEB, Dr Joan Osa Oviawe, said the Back-to-School Rally was organised to inform parents and guardians to allow their wards resume school on September 9 for the 2019/2020 academic session. The chairman, who was represented by a member of the board, Hon. Elizabeth Ighodalo, said academic activities would commence on Monday which is the first day of resumption unlike in previous times when teaching didn’t start on the first day of resumption. “We are beginning a new session and we are assuring our parents that academic activities will commence on Sept. 9, and they should not allow their wards to hawk during school hours,” she added. She noted that members of the School-Based Management Committee are replicating the back-to-school rally across the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. The SUBEB chairman maintained that the Board was working with the State Ministry of Education to ensure the smooth running of basic schools in Edo State, adding that members of SUBEB will monitor resumption of public schools in the state to ensure academic activities commence as planned.