Femi Solaja The Head Coach of Nigeria’s Olympic team, Imama Amapakabo has picked Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), top scorer, Sunusi Ibrahim among the players that will confront Sudan tomorrow in the first leg U-23 AFCON final qualifying match in Omdurman. The top scorer will join others like the team team captain Azubuike Okechukwu, forwards Stephen Odey and Taiwo Awoniyi and 14 other players for the important match. Sunusi who rose from U-17 cadre to the current level was the top scorer in last season’s league with ten goals for Nasarawa United, same number of goals with Akwa United Mfon Udoh but he edged it on account of having one caution less than Udoh. According to the NFF, the delegation of 18 players and 12 officials departed the shores of Nigeria from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja aboard an Ethiopian Airline flight yesterday afternoon. Africa’s first-ever winners of the Olympic men’s football gold, the Olympic Eagles are scheduled to play their first leg of the final round of the U23 AFCON qualifiers against the Sudanese tomorrow at the Al Merriekh Stadium in Omdurman. Amapakabo and his lieutenants have been taking the team through training sessions and general build-up programme for several weeks at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The return leg is billed for the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba on Tuesday next week. The Confederation of African Football has picked officials from Djibouti to take charge of proceedings tomorrow with Souleiman Ahmad Djama as the referee. His compatriots Farhan Bogoreh Salime, Rachid Waiss Bouraleh and Saddam Houssein Mansour will serve as assistant referee 1, assistant referee 2 and fourth official respectively. Mr. Herbert George Mwachiro from Kenya will be the match commissioner. THE FULL LIST: Abubakar Adamu, Agbor Ekoi, Nda Olisa, Stephen Manyo, John Lazarus, Ebube Duru, Collins Ogbodo, Azubuike Okechukwu, Fatai Gbadamosi, Sunday Adetunji, Blessing Muyiwa, Ndifreke Effiong, Taiwo Awoniyi, Onyeka Ogochukwu, Sunusi Ibrahim, Sunday Faleye, Stephen Odey, Etboy Akpan