The Enugu State Executive Council (EXCO), in keeping with the commitment of the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to full implementation of the 2019 budget for the benefit of the people of the state, Thursday awarded contracts for infrastructural development worth over N1.1billion. Briefing newsmen after the council’s meeting at the Government House, Enugu, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Greg Nnaji, who was flanked by the Commissioners for Information and Gender Affairs and Social Development, Mr. Ogbuagu Anikwe and Princess Peace Nnaji, respectively, disclosed that the projects approved for immediate construction and reconstruction were “roads and public building”. Engr. Nnaji stated that the council in a bid to enhance efficiency and productivity in the civil service and ease the suffering of people coming to Enugu for certain administrative engagements, approved the construction of phase one (block A) of zonal secretariat at Nsukka satellite town at the cost of N418, 649 , 187.13. The works commissioner, who emphasised the need for the zonal secretariat, explained that the structure, which he described as a legacy project, had a ground floor and two suspended floors with 27 offices, well planned to effectively serve the purpose it was meant for. On roads, Engr. Nnaji also disclosed that the state government awarded contracts for the reconstruction of Ogidi Street and Onyeama lane, Asata in Enugu metropolis to connect with Carter street, which is under construction by the present administration. Also approved for rehabilitations within Enugu city were the old UNTH-Bunker road, Ngenevu- old UNTH link road and the erosion control works at Okwuosa Street, Ogui New Layout. It would be recalled that Gov. Ugwuanyi had recently embarked on a pre-contract inspection of the newly awarded projects, where he promised government’s immediate intervention. Other road projects approved by the council, according to the works commissioner include, the construction of additional two kilometers at Nkwo Inyi-Akpugoeze Mamu Forest road in Oji River Local Government Area and additional works (River Crossing) on the construction of Nike Lake junction – Harmony Estate road – Amorji Nike – Adoration Pilgrimage centre (Phase one). Engr. Nnaji pointed out that two kilometers of the said road are presently under construction by the state government to serve as a veritable bypass from Nike Lake junction, Abakpa to Emene. He stressed that “the all important bypass” will decongest traffic in the aforementioned areas, reassuring the people of the state that the governor and his administration will continue to work hard for their wellbeing. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Gender Affairs and Social Development, Princess Nnaji, who applauded Gov. Ugwuanyi’s magnanimity towards the downtrodden and vulnerable, stated that the governor through the EXCO approved the sum of N44,974,593.45 for the renovation and equipping of the state government’s rehabilitation centre in Emene. Princess Nnaji added that the project comprises renovation of all male and female hostels, toilets, fencing of the centre and procurement of equipment such as computers for learning and tailoring machines to help them to be self-reliant after rehabilitation. In his briefing, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Anikwe said that the council gave 48 teachers who did not turn up during the verification exercise “one more chance to show up between now and end of the month to get verified with a condition that the person will among others offer reason (s) why he or she did not participate earlier”.