Deji Elumoye in Abuja Former Senate Leader, Senator Ali Ndume, has rolled out a nine-point agenda for the coveted office of Senate President he is vying for in the ninth Senate billed for inauguration in June. Ndume (APC Borno South), who is Chairman of Senate Committee on Establishment and State Services, had last week objected to the imposition of Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, as the next Senate President by the APC leadership saying the move was unconstitutional. Releasing his agenda for 9th Senate Presidency, Ndume who has been in the National Assembly since 2003 promised to improve upon the performance of the 8th Senate adding that he will make the Office of the Senate President less attractive by reducing the unnecessary privileges attached to the office. Promising to uphold the Independence of the legislative arm of government, the third time Senator promised to “work harmoniously and inter-dependently with the Executive without undermining the principle of Separation of Power”. Ndume said he will prioritise and ensure the passage of the Constituency Development Bill to make “constituency projects more transparent, accountable, efficient and effective”. He promised to cooperate and synergise with other Senators-elect with a view agreeing on timeline for confirmation, passage of bills especially the annual budgets which he said will not exceed 90 days from the day of submission.
Other issues on the Ndume for Senate President Agenda include; ” to make laws that will block leakages and devise improved means of generating revenue, especially through the amendment and review of our tax laws which will help to reduce reliance on local and foreign loans to finance budget”.
Ndume also promised “to run the 9th Senate transparently through open accountability with full participation of all Senators .
“For example, we will transfer the approving powers of the privileges of the Senators like foreign travels, allowances to Senate Services Committee or a new Committee to be known as ” Ways and Means Committee”.
To uphold the party’s principles and policies, Ndume said the Senate under his Presidency will make laws and review existing ones “to be in tandem with APC’s Next Level Agenda for Nigeria”.