The 2019 edition of the ‘Youth Entrepreneurship and Empowerment Programme’ (YEEP) organised for the members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) held successfully across three NYSC orientation camps auditoriums in Lagos, Abuja and Benue on Thursday, April 11, 2019. An initiative of Activate Success International Foundation and sponsored by First City Monument Bank (FCMB), the notion of the programme is to mentor youth corps members on practical steps to become successful entrepreneurs in their chosen fields and to also provide career guidance. In line with the commitment of the bank towards the empowerment of youths in entrepreneurship by sponsoring capacity building programmes, the bank constantly seeks for avenues to provide multiple opportunities that would inspire, empower youths with the requisite resources to start successful businesses and enable them to be actively engaged to become successful business owners. Speakers at this year’s event include the founder of Activate Success International Foundation, Ms. Love Idoko who delivered her lecture in Abuja alongside Mr. Seyi Adekunle of Vodi Tailors and popular actor cum broadcaster, Uti Nwachukwu. Cerebral actor and author, Femi Jacobs and Mr. Apeh Iwodi, an architect-cum-entrepreneur took charge in Lagos, while Pst Abel Uloko, a socioprenuer, thought leader and life coach mentored the corps members efficiently in Benue State. The event held simultaneously at the three centers. One of the speakers, Love Idoko while delivering her lecture on ‘Six Things I Wish Every Youth Knew’ said they must endeavor to make the right decisions, have a plan, be their own greatest fan, detoxify their lives, read books and be a good finisher. She said: “Success as an entrepreneur starts with the right decision. You must never underestimate the impact a single decision can have as one wrong move can ruin a career, business or one’s entire life. “To be successful, you need to have a plan. No matter where you are in life, you can be successful if you have a plan for action. You also need to look at your life and evaluate the relationships you keep. Some relationships are energy draining and toxic. “If you are serious about your dream, you have to detoxify your life. You must also read books to update your knowledge and remain relevant in your field. Then, how you finish will be remembered longer than how you start. Success is not just about starting something; we need to be consistent to finish what we have started.” As demonstrated in the 2018 edition of the event, the bank will also be giving grants to lucky young entrepreneurs to support their business idea. #At the 2018 edition of the event, a total sum of N2.7m was given to the corps members as grants in Lagos, Imo, Benue and Abuja NYSC camps where the event held. Over the years, FCMB has developed various engagement programmes focused on empowering young Nigerians and has given young entrepreneurs including students access to training, funding, mentorship, networking opportunities and jobs.