Femi Solaja In a bid to further instill discipline into domestic football scene, the League Management Company (LMC), Thursday slams FC Ifeanyi Ubah and Rangers International of Enugu for gross misconduct in the on going football season. FC IfeanyiUbah was charged for failing to provide adequate security during their week 13 home game against Plateau United and the LMC also gave the club FC 48 hours to communicate in writing, in acceptance of the decision or otherwise before the panel. In a statement from the LMC on their official Twitter handle which reads; “FC Ifeanyi Ubah has been charged by the LMC for breach of Rule B8.21 on MatchDay 13 in their home fixture against Plateau United. “FC Ifeanyi Ubah was charged for failing to provide adequate security for match officials who were threatened on their way to the dressing room at half time by the club’s supporters wielding dangerous objects. “FC Ifeanyiubah has 48 hours to communicate in writing, acceptance of the decision or elect to appear before a panel. THISDAY Sports recalled that Plateau United were banished to Ilorin and fined N3m after their fans encroached the pitch and lynched the centre referee in their Matchday 1 fixture against FC Ifeanyi Ubah which ended goalless. Aside FC IfeanyiUbah, former league champions, Enugu Rangers were on the wrong side of the rules and regulations of LMC and as such received a fine of N2.5 million for breaching league rules during their Matchday 14 which was the match against Katsina United in Enugu. The Flying Antelope failed to provide adequate security to prevent fans gained access to the pitch and almost broke into the dressing room thereby breached Rule B13.52.1, B13.52.2 and B8.21 of the League. Rangers International of Enugu won the said match by a lone goal. Moments after the match, their fans encroached the pitch and gained access to restricted area. The reason for the sanction came into public domain from the league body via its official Twitter handle which reads; “Rangers International has been fined a total of N2.5m for breaches of Rule B13.52.1, B13.52.2 and B8.21 during their MatchDay 14 fixture against Katsina United. “The LMC in a Summary Jurisdiction notice charged the club for failure to ensure adequate and effective crowd control as spectators gained access to restricted area such as the running tracks in breach of Rule B13.52.1. “A third charge against Rangers International was breach of Rule B8.21 in that the club failed to provide adequate security for match officials who were prevented from gaining access to the dressing room and forced to remain on the pitch at half time.”