A beauty training institute, Spectrum Beauty Academy, Nigeria, has called on government to support the beauty industry, especially in the area of education so as to harness the full potential  of the $500billion worth industry. Founder of the Academy, Mrs. Pamela Olatunji, made this call at the institute’s graduation ceremony that saw to the release of no less than 24 beauticians. According to Olatunji, Nigerian government is yet to see the industry as the present day gold mine, whereas the sector happened to be the heartbeat of many other developed economies who have come to realise its enormous value to economic growth. The broadcaster turned beautician also lamented the inadequacy of  competent trainers and teachers, as one of the factors challenging the business in this clime. She craved for government support to formalise the sector by ensuring that practicing members were genuinely qualified. “It is quite unfortunate that for a country as populated  as Nigeria  and for the level of investments and turn out that have been recorded in the beauty segment, I can count the number of qualified teachers. This is why government must take education in this regard more  serious and must be willing to  support  those that showed interest.  It must also ensure that practitioners attained a specified level of certification before they are absorbed in the sector. “As a matter of fact, government in other countries, the United States for instance, give schorlarship to people to learn beauty related courses and ensure that practitioners  attain a level of certifications before practicing the vocation. Quite a number of universities in America and other countries offered cosmetology, we equally need to emulate this to enhance the staying power of the industry,” she said. In her address,  Chief Executive Officer of Hope for Women Nigeria Initiative, (HOFOWEM), Oyefunke Adeleke, noted that Spectrum’s initiative aligns with the vision of HOFOWEM,which sought to raise a generation of financially independent women through empowerment and support. “This is why we have decided to partner the institute, having realised its competence to help achieve the foundation’s dream. Quite a lot of our  beneficiaries are graduating today and we are glad to see what the institute has transformed  them to be”. In her message to the graduands, Chief Executive Officer of Compass Global, Tokunbo Chiedu, advised them to be focus, determined and deliberate about their actions. . Chiedu who equally congratulated the graduands, enjoined them to subject themselves to mentorship and join industry’s  association, so that they can   be abreast of trends and movement in the industry. “I must congratulate you to have passed through this academy, the only one in Nigeria that is accredited and approved by Committee  International d’Esthetique et de Cosmetologist (CIDESCO), world’s prestigious qualification for beauty and therapy. This means you are qualified  to practice anywhere in the world and even learn more “, he added.