Deji Elumoye in Abuja Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and former Senate President, Senator David Mark, have urged Nigerians to remain steadfast and be hopeful of a better nation. The duo in separate Easter messages on Saturday urged Nigerians to use the occasion of the Easter celebration to pray for the security of the nation and return to the path of reconciliation, peace, and justice. Ekweremadu, on his part, added that prayers should also come with the necessary steps to rethink the nation’s security architecture, especially the policing arrangement. He called on the Christian faithful and indeed every Nigerian to pray for divine intervention in the affairs of the nation, particular the frightening insecurity challenges facing various parts of our country. “However, we must also muster the political will to take on these security challenges head-on, beginning with the decentralisation of policing such that constituent parts of the nation are constitutionally empowered to take responsibility for the security of lives and property of the citizens like other federal states and as was the case in this nation before 1966. “Importantly, we need to move away from the path of disunity, mutual suspicion, discrimination, and injustice to make any progress. At Easter, therefore, we must rededicate ourselves to the virtues of love, unity, peace, justice, forgiveness, reconciliation, and sacrifice, which the ministry, death and resurrection of Christ represent”, Ekweremadu further said. Senator Mark, in his message, canvassed the need to strengthen the bond of unity between and among the diverse ethnic and religious groups in Nigeria insisting that there is hope for the country if we remain together. He said in spite of the challenges of insecurity, ethno- religious conflicts and dwindling economy facing the nation, “we should not be discouraged because the challenges are surmountable”. Mark urged the citizens to reflect on the sacrifices and resurrection of Jesus Christ which symbolizes Peace, tolerance and forgiveness in order to coexist harmoniously with one another. He said this time more than ever before calls for reconciliation and forgiveness between and among Nigerians in order to overcome the challenges and move forward. Besides, the governments at all levels, he urged religious leaders across the divide to lead the way to a Peaceful and harmonious relationship in the country. He however charged authorities at various levels to lead with justice and equity pointing out that it will be a sure way to peace and harmony in the country. According to Mark, there is need for authorities to restore people’s trust and confidence in the system even as he urged citizens not to despair amidst the uncertainties.