Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri The federal government has commenced rehabilitation of the road linking the North-east of the country to neighbouring Cameroon. The road, Maiduguri-Dikwa road, according to the acting Director-General of National Boundary Commission (NBC), Adamu Adaji, would be rehabilitated under the watch of the military to prevent attack from Boko Haram, which has made it impassable for about a decade. The road, according to him, would be supervised by the Presidential Resettlement Committee. The 85-kilometre would open access to many communities affected by Boko Haram insurgency in Borno. The road which link Maiduguri, the epicenter of Boko Haram with three local governments, Mafa, Dikwa and Marte, in the heart of Borno State, has become the den of Boko Haram largely because of its bad state. It was on this road that a convoy of Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, on February 21, 2019, was attacked by Boko Haram. Flagging off the project at Mafa, Adaji said that the Presidency has approved funds to construct and repair the dilapidated road from Maiduguri to Dikwa. He said: “Work on this road has commenced with the support of Nigerian Army. The Acting General Officer Commanding of 7 Division; Brig. Gen. Abdulmalik Biu, will provide security for the commission to complete the project.” Adaji said the road, which is expected to be completed in 41 days, will link Cameroon and other border communities in the state. He said the road was in compliance with 2002 International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruling on border communities with Chad and Cameroon. He noted that the road is important as it allows for the movement of 200 to 300 trucks daily loaded with industrial and household products to Cameroon, Chad, Sudan, South Sudan, Niger and Central African Republic. Shettima revealed that earth dams are also to be constructed between Dikwa and Mafa for farming and livestock production. He also told Adaji that an asphalt plant is to be established in Dikwa to expedite the completion of road projects in that axis of the state.