Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole in Abuja The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has blamed poor telecom services being delivered to customers on poor power supply by the electricity distribution companies in Nigeria. The Manager, Technical Department (NCC), Mr. Musa Diabu, stated this over the weekend in Okene, Kogi State when the commission held a sensitisation programme on the need for citizens to collectively protect telecom infrastructure in the country rather be left to security personnel only. Daibu who blamed inadequate power supply for the poor services provided by the service providers, said Nigeria needs about 158,000 metres of optic fibre to provide adequate broadband across the country, adding that what the country currently has is 38,000 metres. The Director Zonal Operations, Mrs. Amina Shehu, speaking through the Principal Manager, Zonal Operations, NCC, Mr. Ekisola Oladisun said that despite the numerous challenges being faced by service providers, Nigeria broadband penetration has continued to increase. Oladisun said that though the country had achieved a lot in the telecom industry, there are still huge challenges. “This feat would not have been achieved without the active collaboration of all relevant stakeholders and the enabling environment provided by government in the sector’’, he added. ‘’However, much as we aim to sustain the growth and as the industry continues to evolve, we are faced with various challenges that have hampered development in the sector as it relates to infrastructure deployment with the Commission’s pervasive drive to increase Broadband penetration in with the set target by government, increase in deployment of robust critical telecom infrastructure is imperative.” He decried the incessant vandalisation of telecom facilities across the country saying that vandalism of telecom infrastructure has continued to be a major challenge in the telecom industry. He said the NCC would continue to collaborate with the relevant agencies to ensure adequate security for telecoms facilities and also engage stakeholders on the need to protect telecommunications infrastructure.