Efforts to drive gender mainstreaming in Edo State have been commended by female beneficiaries of the re-opening of the Adult and Non-Formal Education centres across the state, who say that the centres have given them another opportunity to go to school while taking care of their families. They said the re-opening of the centres after ten years will bridge the gender gap and encourage enrollment of more females, especially those who were not opportune to get formal education earlier in life. The beneficiaries said this during a campaign by the Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Gender Issues, Ms. Efosa Uyigue, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education to encourage more females to enrol in the learning centres, held in Igueben Local Government Area. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Cordelia Justin, said “I am very happy this is happening. It ensures that women will have the opportunity to go to adult schools. You will find out that when we go to banks, some women can’t even fill tellers. When they get the opportunity to learn in adult schools, they will be able to write, read and be happy with themselves.” Mrs. Deborah Ifeanyi commended the state government for the rare privilege given to women in Edo State to get educated, urging for the sustenance of the scheme, as it will have a strong impact on their lives. “With the centres in place, women will become more aware of happenings in the society and be able to contribute to the development of the state,” she said. On her part, Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Gender Issues, Efosa Uyigue, said the awareness campaign focuses on the importance of Girl-Child Education, adding that any community which desires to meet up with development, must encourage women to acquire education. “We are going to do everything to ensure that the programme is sustained to achieve the desired objectives,” she assured. Chairman, Igueben Local Government Area, Hon. Jossie Ogedegbe, said the adult education programme was reactivated after his resumption as council boss, as he considered it important to bring such an opportunity closer to the people.