After a positive return to action in the NPFL which saw it chalk up eight points from available twelve in four matches, Rangers International F.C is aiming for an upset win on the road as Katsina United play host to the ‘Flying Antelopes’ in a re-scheduled match day 2 encounter on Wednesday, April 3, 2019 at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in Katsina. With two home victories over Sunshine Stars and Remo Stars and valuable away draws in Sagamu, mid-week and Minna at the weekend, the coach Olugbenga Ogunbote tutored side is in the right frame of mind to annex all points at stake in Katsina while awaiting the reverse fixture four days later in Enugu. Coach Ogunbote, who was crowned Aiteo/NFF Coach-Of-The-Year 2018 on Monday in Lagos, said yesterday: “We are going to Katsina with a strong belief that we would get something from the match. Like I always say, we take every match as they come and this one is not different.” On the state of mind of his players, the vastly experienced gaffer said, “The players are in the best state of mind to get the needed result in Katsina. I remember that last season, they ran away with a lone goal victory but this term, we are set to re-write the history.” Attacking sensation for the Enugu side and FIFA World Cup star, Michael Uchebo, after firing blank in Minna said, “No doubt, we are fired up to deliver the goods in Katsina. I know it will be a difficult match but we are in the right frame of mind to wrestle all the three points at stake.” Katsina United at the weekend dispatched Lobi Stars 2-0 with Tasiu Lawal and Bashir Sherif’ 18th and 85th minute goals separating both sides. On the Group A log of the abridged league, Katsina United occupy the 4th position with 17 points from 12 matches played while the ‘Flying Antelopes’, Rangers are 3rd with same number of points from eight games executed. Rangers will next play Katsina United in the reverse fixture which is a Match day 14 encounter scheduled for the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu, on April 7.