The Lagos State Baseball and SoftBall Association has affirmed it readiness to develop the game in the State through Grassroots development . The Chairman of the State Baseball and Softball Association, Mr Abiodun Lawrence Ogidan said the aim is to spread the game across the schools in the State and provide the necessary equipments and to train the schools games’ teachers the technical aspect of the game. Mr Lawrence-Ogidan further said that some reputable citizens have indicated interest to consult for the association and help raise the standard of the sport to the level that would be rated as one of the best in the world. “We are ready to take this game to all schools in Lagos state and provide necessary training kits for the schools because we believe in Grassroots Development. We will also train the schools games teachers on the technical aspects of the game. “We have access to kits don’t let us worry ourselves about that, whether locally or internationally, already I can tell you what is on the way, there are three separate clubs in the United states that are willing to partner with Lagos State Baseball and Softball association. “Personally I have two people who have told me and expressed their wish to be an international consultants to us in terms of having a sister club abroad. I know in Atlanta, I know in Dallas and in Maryland they are ready to work with us and this will help us in terms of kits”. Mr Lawrence –Ogidan further emphasized that his Board is organising a well structured League in order to get attention from well meaning Nigerians who are staunched lover of Baseball and Softball in the country adding that their aim is to have long, medium and short term plans which is to build a Lagos state Baseball Park. “ Our plan is to have a land for a baseball Park which has been discussed with the incoming Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu and having a Baseball Park will solved many problems in developing the game which is our long term plan which will definitely attract sponsors to invest into the game and have a well structured league in the state”. Lagos state Baseball and Softball league kicks off on the 27th of April with six clubs. The league will last duration of six weeks.