It seems that wherever superstar actress and flower girl of high society, Monalisa Chinda goes, controversy is never far away, following her around like a faithful shadow. The pretty entertainer has fallen foul of state laws as she is being pursued by the Lagos State Government for allegedly failing to pay her taxes. And, rather than show up to state her case, the woman who cracked the Nollywood industry with the 1996 hit Pregnant Virgin, has shown more dexterity in staying away from court than she has shown in steering clear of her numerous brushes with controversy over the years. Despite repeated summons by the court for her to appear, she has feigned deaf ears and blind eyes. The case against her stems from her entertainment company Monalisa Code Productions, which operates out of highbrow Lekki, allegedly failing to render tax returns to the government as enshrined in law. Since 2017 when the company was dragged to court on a two-count charge, Port Harcourt-born Monalisa, who rode to stardom on the back of the hit 2007 soap opera Heaven’s Gate, has failed to show her face in court. The exasperated judge, Adedayo Akintoye finally lost her cool on January 21 as she issued a bench warrant for the immediate arrest of the fair-complexioned actress who is on her second marriage after her first to Dejo Richards crumbled amid allegations of domestic violence and infidelity. But Monalisa remained unfazed as she went AWOL as usual the next two times the court reconvened. As the case could not proceed in the absence of the defendant and her lawyer who was also nowhere to be seen, Justice Akintoye of the Lagos High Court in Igbosere had no choice but to again adjourn the case to June 2 while renewing the bench warrant. It remains to be seen what happens in the standoff between Monalisa and the civil authorities. There are speculations that if she keeps up her game of cat and mouse, the court might issue an arrest warrant which would force the police to find and take her into custody so she could finally stand trial. It seems that wherever superstar actress and flower girl of high society, Monalisa Chinda goes, controversy is never far away, following her around like a faithful shadow. The pretty entertainer has fallen foul of state laws as she is being pursued by the Lagos State Government for allegedly failing to pay her taxes. And, rather than show up to state her case, the woman who cracked the Nollywood industry with the 1996 hit Pregnant Virgin, has shown more dexterity in staying away from court than she has shown in steering clear of her numerous brushes with controversy over the years. Despite repeated summons by the court for her to appear, she has feigned deaf ears and blind eyes The case against her stems from her entertainment company Monalisa Code Productions, which operates out of highbrow Lekki, allegedly failing to render tax returns to the government as enshrined in law. Since 2017 when the company was dragged to court on a two-count charge, Port Harcourt-born Monalisa, who rode to stardom on the back of the hit 2007 soap opera Heaven’s Gate, has failed to show her face in court. The exasperated judge, Adedayo Akintoye finally lost her cool on January 21 as she issued a bench warrant for the immediate arrest of the fair-complexioned actress who is on her second marriage after her first to Dejo Richards crumbled amid allegations of domestic violence and infidelity. But Monalisa remained unfazed as she went AWOL as usual the next two times the court reconvened. As the case could not proceed in the absence of the defendant and her lawyer who was also nowhere to be seen, Justice Akintoye of the Lagos High Court in Igbosere had no choice but to again adjourn the case to June 2 while renewing the bench warrant. It remains to be seen what happens in the standoff between Monalisa and the civil authorities. There are speculations that if she keeps up her game of cat and mouse, the court might issue an arrest warrant which would force the police to find and take her into custody so she could finally stand trial.