Information Communication Technology company, Brother, has unveiled new product range at a dealers and stakeholders’  conference  in Lagos. This, according to the company, is part of efforts to refresh its products range from business machines to document scanners, for the small medium sized businesses (SMBs), and  small office/ home office (SOHOs). Some of the new products that were brought  to the market included, Laser & Inkjet printers, high speed document scanners and labeling printers amongst others. The Assistant Manager/ Planning Division of the company, Virginia Jonathan, revealed that the company’s latest move was in fulfillment of its regional growth strategy. She explained that the over 100 years and award winning Japanese  brand was committed to enhance the business of its customers, which was why the company has continued to evolve and expand based on consumers trends and  demands. “From sewing machine, we have expanded to technology products, such as scanner, typewriter, printer, e t.c . As a solution provider, we are not just delivering products but also solutions that guarantee maximum productivity, security and reduce cost. “For instance, the latest  industrial ‘Label printers’ are manufactured to deliver quality, reliability and convenience. They can be transported to where electrical work is in progress and controlled with a laptop or through mobile apps, enabling customers to print labels on the spot, as needed. “The new printers are compatible with TZe tapes, the toughest auto-laminated labels in the market. “Labels printed on TZe tapes work well in industrial environments as they are resistant to water, grease and harsh weather conditions. Labels of up to 24mm in width are accepted, supporting a wider range of applications,” she said. Also speaking at the event, the company’s Manager, Sales Division, Mohammed Noor, added that the  new generation of  network scanners recently introduced by the company were designed to improve employees productivity  and business efficiency. “They are developed for the heavy-duty scanning demands of the SMB market, all of  which offer full network functionality that allows machine to work harder for multiple users on various devices, without the need for a link to a central PC. The ink refill tank system series deliver  enhanced print quality, paper handling capabilities and page yields for SMBs and SOHOs”, he said. Managing Director of Skysat, (Brothers’s preferred partner and authorised representative in Nigeria), Izzat Debbs, stated that both Brother and Skysat were continuously working to address market trends in  Nigeria by delivering and offering high quality products. On his part, President, Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), Ahmed Ojikutu, called for strengthened synergy between original equipment manufacturers, OEMs, and dealers. He said this would aid better understanding of products by end-users as well as improve market share of  investors.