By Emma Okonji 9mobile has reacted to the news that the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has nullified the sale of 9Mobile to Teleology Nigeria Limited, describing it as misleading, mischievous and a total falsehood. In a statement signed by the telecoms company’s Secretary/ Legal Adviser, Ore Olajide, 9mobile said the Federal High Court, Abuja did not nullify the sale, but that the court on 1st April 2019 made an order for parties to maintain status quo as at April 25, 2018. The statement said as at the said date, Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Ltd, was not a party to the suit before the court, adding that case before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court is not about the sale of 9mobile but rather, the transfer of the licence even without locus standi. It further said that EMTS (9mobile) has however appealed the order and also sought an injunction pending appeal at the Court of Appeal. Olajide said, “The sale of 9mobile to Teleology Nigeria Limited has not been nullified. The court made an order to maintain status quo as at April 25, 2018 when EMTS was not a party to the suit and we have appealed the ruling as well as sought an injunction pending appeal at the Court of Appeal”. According to him, “EMTS hereby assures our subscribers and all stakeholders to remain calm as matters are under control and we are working with our team of legal counsels to follow through as deemed necessary. EMTS remains focused on providing best in class telecommunication services to its subscribers and will provide necessary updates in due course.” Meanwhile, the President of the Association of Telecoms Company of Nigeria (ATCON), Mr. Olusola Teniola, has said Teleology Nigeria, which is the majority shareholder in 9mobile, must be bold to comment on the issues at stake, in order to send clear signals to 9mobile subscribers. Teniola said since Teleology Nigeria was the majority shareholder, it had the legal right and voting power to continue to run the business of 9mobile, in order to give hope to its growing subscribers.
He equally urged 9mobile subscribers not to panic, since the majority shareholder, Teleology Nigeria, was in full control.