Digital Terrestrial Television service provider, GOtv, has announced the addition of nine new local channels to its subscribers in Jos and Kaduna from Sunday, 7 April and Thursday, 11 April respectively. The channels will be available to subscribers on GOtv Max and Plus packages. The channels to be added are Spice TV, MiTV, WAP TV, ITV Benin, BISCON, Liberty TV, Tiwan Tiwan, R2TV and Rave. Chief Executive Officer of MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. John Ugbe, said the additional local channels to subscribers in northern Nigeria is in line with the company’s commitment to promoting Nigeria’s heritage, through making diverse cultural content available across its platforms. “One of our value propositions is to ensure that we have a varied range of local channels that cut across different genres for a more wholesome viewing experience for our customers. These channels offer originally produced programmes that cater to the different tastes and preferences of our customers. We are also excited to offer these channels as part of our efforts in enabling Nigeria achieve a speedy digital switch over,” he said. Ugbe also stated that no digital terrestrial television operator in Nigeria has shown more commitment and support for local content made in Africa for Africans than GOtv. GOtv currently has over 20 local channels across different genres, including news, movies and general entertainment on its Max package. With over 100 hours of new programming monthly, showcasing the latest trends, major international fashion shows, designer events and professional highlights of the fashion industry, Spice TV (channel 10) offers the most comprehensive and fastest review of fashion and lifestyle shows. MiTV (channel 94) broadcasts an array of entertainment programmes, news, family, business, music, sports, education, health and development issues from across the country, while WAP TV (channel 102) is a top-quality family entertainment from the stable of Wale Adenuga Productions of the SuperStory fame and other esteemed TV content producers across Nigeria. ITV Benin (channel 107) and BISCON TV (channel 108) are local television channels that showcase sports, business, politics, lifestyle, culture, arts and general entertainment programmes. Liberty TV (channel 110), a Kaduna-based television station, delivers a unique mix of English and Hausa content, while Tiwan Tiwan (channel 111) is a Yoruba language music and lifestyle channel.  R2TV (channel 112), a 24-hour entertainment channel broadcasting in English language, feature originally produced and licensed music, fashion, theatre, dance, drama, movies, talk shows, cooking shows, docuseries and reality shows. Youth-oriented RAVE (channel 113) is a unique blend of content aimed at harnessing the energy and talent of the younger generation.