 ‘Lagos for Show’
He was right. It is really easy to obtain official documents in Lagos courts; not through the touts that often litter court premises, but from judiciary workers.  Same Rotten System in Ogun
After obtaining the legal documents in Lagos, Angela proceeded to Ogun State where she repeated the same process successfully.
At the high court in Ota, she was able to obtain the sworn affidavit without deposing to it. In previous, she told the reporter, in obtaining the documents, she had invented signatures at will. She also did the same change of name at the Customary Court, Grade 1, claiming the deponent is her ‘husband’. No Photograph Required for Affidavits in Ibadan  FCT Rolling in the Same Mire  Like Maitama, like Apo
With N1,000 (though the official fee is N500), Hajara was able to obtain sworn affidavits for the change of name and date of birth at the High Court in Apo. The transaction did not take more than a minute. The intermediary was then directed to the commissioner for oaths’ office.  Here’s Another Worry
In the sworn affidavits issued by Nigerian courts, checks revealed that there are no security features of any sort to prevent fraud. One police source stated that it is “almost impossible” to determine the authenticity of such a legal document on the spot. However, legal experts argue that an affidavit often carries the signature of the deponent and that of the commissioner for oaths. It also carries the seal of the court.
Yet, the policeman argued further that the seal does not establish an affidavit’s authenticity as all fake ones also carry the seal and that civil servants working in courts sometimes forge the signatures of the commissioner for oaths.
Court records are also not reliable because the judiciary relies heavily on filing papers which become damaged due to bad weather and time. There is no central database to check against insidious multiple changes of name and date of birth.
This situation, many believe, has made it easy for Nigerian politicians to change their names – to hide a hideous past – and their dates of birth to qualify for a position. Many politicians and employees are said to have ‘official’ age often different from their real age.
Even job seekers in Nigeria carry multiple age declaration certificates obtained from courts and use them to apply for a job depending on the age requirement. Sometimes, this fraud is taken to an international level and it all boils down to the country’s judicial system issuing questionable affidavits. ‘Football Age’ a la Sworn Affidavits 
In local parlance, there is what is called ‘football’ age. In developing countries where scouts usually go looking for young talented players to sign for a European club, the players know that there is a lesser chance of being signed if they are, for example, 23 years old as opposed to 17.
In what appeared like state-sanctioned practice, Nigeria’s national teams have been found wanting in this area.  Expert’s Position
Yemisi Grace Oyebo, a document management expert, who believes that crime rate, is increasing in the country due to lack of a central database said in an interview: “Our focus should be to have legacies for the coming generations. Other countries have a central database; we don’t have that in Nigeria.  Are There Really no Records Kept?
“How do you expect me to know the number of changes of name that has been done in the country? If you need any such information, you’ll have to go to the National Population Council (NPC). I have gone around asking people which department handles records of change of name. I have spoken with my colleagues in the legal department and they told me that they don’t have such records. I know there should be somewhere where the records are kept. It’s an assignment I will see the end of it. Nigeria is not that bad,” the Director of Press at the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Modupe Ogundoro, replied to THISDAY when asked how many changes of name and date of birth were processed in the last five years.  Nigerian Government Reacts 
Mr. James Sunday, the spokesman for the National Immigration Service (NIS), does not seem to see anything wrong with the way Nigeria’s judiciary issues sworn affidavits for the change of name and date of birth.
When contacted to comment on the crisis of credibility that acceptance of sworn affidavits originating from Nigerian courts places on NIS’ issuance of passports, Sunday expressed unshakeable faith in the system. 