Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Thursday said it would conduct supplementary elections in four state constituencies in Rivers state on Saturday, April 13. The commission disclosed this in a statement signed by its National Commissioner and Chairman Voter Education and Publicity, Barr. Festus Okoye. The electoral body said the decision was made after it met Thursday to review the conduct of the just concluded Rivers State collation, where it expressed satisfaction with the outcome and commended the security agencies for their professionalism, which ensured the peaceful conduct of the exercise. The commission also commended the political parties, domestic and international observers, other stakeholders and the people of Rivers State for their support and understanding which paved the way for the speedy and orderly conclusion of the exercise. He stressed, “However, supplementary elections will be held in the following areas on Saturday 13th April, 2019 in line with the timetable released by the Commission in Gokana, Opobo/Nkoro, Ahoada West, Abuja/Odual.” Okoye said that in Gokana, 129, 086 voters were affected in 17 registration areas, 219 polling units and 41 voting points. He added that in Opobo/Nkoro, 7,344 voters were affected in five registration areas, 20 polling units, and two voting points. While in Ahoada West, 36,692 voters were affected in 10 registration areas, 47 polling units, and 30 voting points. Okoye said that in Abua/Odual, 88,561 voters were affected in 13 registration areas,181 polling units and 33 voting points. He added that in all, a total of 261, 683 voters were affected, in 45 registration areas, 467 polling units and 106 voting points. Okoye said that the Commission also deliberated on the conduct of lmo North Senatorial District election held on February 23 and March 9, noted a number of issues arising from the election and set up a Committee to look into them. “The Committee is to ascertain the veracity or otherwise of allegations of misconduct in the election. It is also to advise the Commission on whether its procedures were complied with by officials. The Committee is to submit its report on Wednesday 10th April 2019.”