Eromosele Abiodun The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘A’ Ikeja, yesterday announced that it seized smuggled items including 113 cars worth over N2 billion within three months. Top on the seized items include banned drugs such as Tramadol, Codeine and Diclofenac, Paracetamol injection without NAFDAC number, chest and lung tablets, and 13,810 bags of foreign smuggled rice. The Area Comptroller of the unit, Compt. Mohammed Aliyu who announced the seizures in a chat with journalists in Lagos, said the command was motivated to pursue the enforcement of the federal government against drugs bandits and smugglers because of the need to put smugglers and economic saboteurs out of business. While calling on smugglers to be aware of the harm they are doing to their fellow citizens, he said the customs would not relent on its effort but would continue to enforce the mandate of the government for the good of all. He added that his men were even more determined, following the recent award of recognition on him and his command by the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), held at the Banquet Hall, Aso Villa, Abuja, recently. According to him, “I know that you are aware that we were given a merit award by NAFDAC, which was like a national award. This award motivates me and the command to work hard in ensuring that the federal government’s policy on hard drugs and smuggling is curbed. Therefore, we will not relent but continue to fight these smugglers determined to frustrate the federal government policy on smuggled items, “he said He added, “in the last three months, we have recorded many seizures. The seizures included 113 units of exotic vehicles with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N1.4 billion, 600 cartons of codeine syrup valued at N240,000,000, 49 cartons Paracentamol Injection with duty paid value of N39,200,00; 13810 bags of foreign rice with DPV at N190, 961320, Indian hemp, Vegetable Oil, frozen poultry products, Tomato paste used tyres among others.” Mohammed stated that genuine vehicle owners with proper documentation can come forward to claim their vehicles. “Most of these vehicles were intercepted in the bush; some along the roads while some at car mart, through intelligence report. Whoever appears to claim ownership of the vehicle without proper papers or documentation will be arrested and prosecuted” he said. He reiterated that the command will fight tooth and nail in ensuring that smugglers are eradicated “The command is not sleeping we are also aware of their tactics, and we are ever ready for them, we will ensure that we fight these smugglers tooth and nail by enforcing government policy on smuggled items, “he added. Muhammed who took a swipe at stakeholders calling for the removal of his men from port roads, stressed that the unit has made considerable number of remarkable seizures by being at the port roads. “If we leave the port road, only God knows what would be allowed into the country this is because of the type of seizures and interceptions we have made at that side, “he said. Mohammed also disclosed that trucks and vehicles used for the atrocities will be confiscated and auctioned.