 She is a warm, friendly and courteous event planner, fashionista, healthy living enthusiast and cook. For Abisola Abisoye, the Chief Executive Officer of Lagos-based Ball Events Concepts, finding her passion came both naturally and quickly. Being the head keeps her on her toes, but she couldn’t be happier. A lot goes into event planning and she makes sure that every detail is executed to perfection.  For her, it’s all about a solid team and a constant flow of creative ideas. Adedayo Adejobi finds out Abisola’s innermost fears, inspirations and what gives her fulfilment aside the job How did you get into Event Management? I got into the Event Industry through ushering at parties and events. I have always loved seeing my imaginations or ideas come to life and event planning gave me that avenue. What was the toughest event you have organised? My toughest event so far was my first event. I had to do it, pregnant with my first child and I felt I had to hide it from the client. I was seven months pregnant and was drilled and drained because it was a major society wedding. When client found out I had a baby barely two months later, she was shocked and worried the baby and I were fine because of the stress I went through. What is the best advice you would give to someone who is thinking about going into event management? I would advise the person to do their market survey, pick an area of specialisation, write a business plan and get trained in that field. What does it take to be a good event manager? It takes diligence, hard work, dedication, loyalty and honesty to be a good event planner. I think the following traits are essential for you to thrive in this industry – integrity, honesty, transparency, diligence, consistency, dedication and loyalty to your client, staff and vendors.  What’s the Best Part of Your Job Now? The feedback, I live for those as they are mostly positive and heart-warming. What was your first pay cheque as an events manager? Honestly, I cannot remember but what I do recall was that I made N15, 000 and invested same in buying my own bundles of fabric for the next event and boy, was I elated. You are over a decade in the industry; could you share the highs and lows? I have gone through so many highs and lows but the ability to get through it is what has sustained me over the years. Ball Events will be 11years in June. What are the key challenges? Lack of tailored financial services to suit peculiar needs of the industry and lack of business continuity plan to the next generation.  As a woman, what gives you fulfilment aside your job? Taking care of my family gives me the ultimate fulfilment. I am a nurturer so when I am not at work or at an event, I am tending to my family. It gives me the ultimate joy. How do you juggle being a wife, mother and a very busy events planner? I have learnt to master my time and plan everything accordingly. On most days, all goes well but some other days, we just go with the flow but I couldn’t have done it so well without my mother’s help. She had to move in with us to take care of us all and cover the grounds for me when I have to be away from home. What inspires you? The fear of poverty. What are your five most vain possessions? My Shoes, phones, and my perfumes. I don’t have up to five. What are your best vacation spots? Barbados, Dubai and Orlando When you are not working, what do you do? Cooking – it gives me so much joy to cook and feed people. Growing up, what values have shaped you? Honesty, contentment, perseverance and hard work. What do you find romantic in a date? The time alone to talk without interruptions. What are your innermost secrets? I can’t tell it. That’s why they are my innermost secrets. If you were an outfit, what would you be? A Jumpsuit. Your favourite nail-paint colour? Nude. Your best styled celebrity? Rita Dominic. If you were to give a fashion advice, what would it be? Never go out without your lip gloss. What’s your beauty secret? I drink lots of water and juice my veggies. What physical feature do you like playing up? My height. Which facial feature do you highlight? My Eyelashes. A fashion trend that puts you off... Permanent brow tattoo. What do you tend to overbuy? Shoes. On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate your personal style? 8/10. Your favourite make-up style? Smokey eyes, nude lips, can’t ever go wrong with it. Your favourite item in the wardrobe… My black jumpsuits (I have quite a lot). A must-apply make-up item… Mascara. Your style of jeans… High-waist Skinny Jeans all day every day. What’s the one garment that makes you feel ‘body confident’? Above the knee shift dress. What’s the one garment you feel conscious in? A white dress. The most treasured item in your closet? A new jumpsuit I just got (It’s green by the way).