Ndubuisi Francis in Abuja The Amnesty Office has told beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) deployed in Admiralty University Ibusa, Delta State for academic programmes to accept the terms of scholarship as applicable to the institution or vacate its premises. This followed the rejection of sponsorship letters by some delegates offered admission by the university for the current academic session on the grounds that the centralised feeding arrangement by the institution is unacceptable to them. Part of the conditions for offer of admission to its prospective students is compulsory provision of feeding by the institution for which the Amnesty Office agreed to pay N45, 000 monthly for their feeding from a sum of N70, 000 entitled to each delegate as In-Training Allowance (ITA). Consequently, delegates of the Amnesty Programme on sponsorship at Admiralty University are to receive N25, 000 monthly being the balance on their ITA, along with other entitlements. A statement issued Wednesday by Murphy Ganagana, Special Assistant (Media) to the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, PAP, Prof. Charles Dokubo said that despite communicating and clarifying the development to the delegates at the institution during an orientation exercise, some of them decided not to accept the sponsorship letters offered them by the Amnesty Programme. “The Amnesty Office hereby advises its delegates at Admiralty University opposed to the institution’s feeding policy and rejected the sponsorship letters to vacate the school premises and apply in writing to the Presidential Amnesty Programme for redeployment to other universities for the next academic session. “We wish to emphasize that deployment for the 2018/19 academic session has elapsed in the Presidential Amnesty Programme and redeployment to other institutions is not feasible presently. “While payment will be processed on acceptance of terms of scholarship by delegates at Admiralty University, those who rejected the offer are to vacate the school premises without further delay and shall not be entitled to any payment. “Amnesty Programme delegates deployed in the institution for the current academic session have a window of seven (7) days with effect from today (3rd to 10th April, 2019) to take a position on this issue, by accepting or declining the offer of sponsorship,” the statement concluded.