The Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) Limited, a member of the Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company (CCHBC), has donated items including Plasma Television sets and air conditioning systems to the management of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria as part of its contribution towards empowering youth in the country by improving their learning environment. Speaking after the donation recently, the Regional Public Affairs and Communications Manager (North), NBC, Mr. Aminu Mohammed, who represented the Public Affairs and Communications Director, Ekuma Eze, said the donation was a demonstration of the company’s confidence in Nigerian youths and support for academic excellence as youth development remains a major area of its corporate social responsibility framework. “Over the years, our community investments have evolved from unconnected philanthropic initiatives to long-term programmes aligned to three key strategic priorities including the empowerment of youth and women; the creation of a world without waste and water stewardship. “For youths, we are committed to motivating students and indeed young people to unleash their potential, this is at the core of what we believe. We sincerely hope that the items donated here today, would go a long way in shaping a better life and future for the students,” he said. In his remarks, the Deputy Dean, Student Affairs, Ahmadu Bello University, Professor Mohammed Dabo thanked the management of NBC for its support towards enhancing education for the students. He said the donation would improve recreation for the students on the campus, describing it as a huge support which is expected to enrich the learning experience for the students. “We applaud the effort of Nigerian Bottling Company Limited to support our students with these items; we know this would go a long way to give them a better experience as students. With this, I am sure our students would be able to relax and enjoy themselves during their leisure period.” He charged the students to make the best use of the items handed over to them by ensuring that the equipment and other facilities are maintained for optimal use. Dabo also urged other corporate organisations to emulate NBC by lending their support in whatever areas they can to create a conducive learning environment for students.