Three Africans who are renowned for giving voice to words through poetry are in the limelight this week on Globacom-sponsored African Voices, a magazine programme of the Cable News Network (CNN). The poets, Wana Udobang from Nigeria; Kadija Sesay, a British of Sierra Leonean descent,  and hip hop-flavoured word artist, Enos Olik from Kenya, will let viewers into their worlds and the sources of their muses which have stood them out in their talents. According to a statement from Globacom, Freelance journalist, poet, television personality and writer, WanaWana, as Udobang is popularly addressed, is reputed as one of the biggest champions of our new spoken word renaissance in contemporary Nigeria.   Her first spoken-word album, entitled Dirty Laundry, was launched in 2013. She released a second album, entitled In Memory of Forgetting, in 2017. The album has been described as an incredibly brave advocacy for the resilience of women, their triumphs and struggles, their trauma and epiphanies. WanaWana herself would define the work as “a collection of memories navigating experiences that range from places of brokenness and questioning to self-renewal.” Her works have appeared on the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and Al Jazeera, among other media of note. Kenyan Olik marries poetry with fast paced Hip-Hop to create a unique performance style. A reputable cinematographer and video director, Olik has worked with several heavyweights in the entertainment industry within and outside his country. He started out as a musician, then photographer until he discovered his passion for performance poetry. Olik, a graduate of Commerce from the University of Nairobi, also secured a certificate in 3D animation. Two of his productions entitled Paid My Dues by Anto Neosoul and the flamboyant singer Jaguar’s latest video to the song Kioo were listed as videos of the week on television music shows. The third guest on the programme, Sesay, is a literary activist, short story writer, poet and the Publisher and Managing Editor of  Sable LitMag, a magazine that promotes arts and talents. She is the General Secretary for African Writers Abroad and organises the Writers’ HotSpot where she teaches Creative Writing and Journalism courses to prospective writers. Her first full collection of poems, entitled Irki, was published in 2013. This and other works of poetry have earned her many awards and nominations, including the Cosmopolitan Woman of Achievement, Candace Woman of Achievement and The VoiceCommunity Award in Literature. 