In an effort to groom programmers and techpreneurs in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki’s skills development platform, EdoJobs, has partnered with Curators University to train more youths in Edo State on data science at the Edo Innovation Hub. Senior Special Assistant to Edo State Governor on Job Creation and Skills Development and Head, EdoJobs, Mrs Ukinebo Dare, disclosed this in a chat with journalists, noting that the training is in line with the governor’s pledge to create 200,000 jobs in the state. The training programme would be for the second batch of trainees, as a batch had earlier been trained to deploy data science and machine learning skills in solving societal problems. Members of that batch participated in the National Breast Cancer Hackathon organised by Breast Cancer Association of Nigeria and Access Bank and clinched the top two spots. Speaking on the training for the second batch, Mrs Dare said the state government is confident that the 5-day intensive training programme would groom a new set of innovators who would provide solutions to local problems in the state. According to her, “We are partnering with Curators University to train more youths on data science. The training will be for five days. This will give them the opportunity to learn how to deploy data in solving problems. Those expected at the training include university graduates, undergraduates or school leavers, who are interested in data science. The training will hold at the Edo Innovation Hub.” She noted that as the world continues to become accustomed to new technologies, the need for data scientists would increase as they help others understand information better. She said, “We are excited with the results we are getting from the different training ongoing at the Hub. We want to assure those interested in this training that they will get the best of practical and theoretical training in data science. It is open to those studying any course, aside computer scientists or economists from the universities.”