The Idoma community in the Diaspora has pleaded with the Federal Government to rehabilitate the family Ogar Jumbo Ochigbo, an Assistant Superintendent of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), who was allegedly killed by officers of the Nigerian Police in Abuja. In a statement issued over the weekend, the Idoma community in the United States of America and Canada decried the untimely death of ” a son of Idoma” asking the government to ensure justice for the family. The statement signed by the President of the Association, Jolly Ogbole Abu, said they also want the children to undergo proper medical and sociological welfare programme to mitigate the violence they were exposed to. Abu said: “We received with shock, the untimely death of one of our sons, in the hands of an officer of the Nigeria Police over an altercation ensuing from driving on a one way strip of road to get his children to meet the school start time. “Late Mr Ogar Jumbo Ochigbo, an Assistant Superintendent of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps does not deserve to die at such a young and promising age for whatever offence the Police Officer must have thought he committed in such a brutal, barbaric and inhuman way and surely not in the presence of his wife and little kids. “We have also heard of how one of the kids pleaded with the Policeman not to kill her father; a plea that, of course, fell on deaf ears stuffed with a compulsion to kill. “We decry the unwarranted killings of Nigerians that has become a routine in the hands of our trigger happy security agents and surely must call on the Inspector General of Police to immediately take the necessary steps to bring the culprits to book. “Steps must be taken to ensure the proper rehabilitation of the family, particularly the children who will surely become traumatised by this dastardly act for their life time. “In this regards, they must be subject to a proper medical and sociological welfare programme that can mitigate the repercussions of their exposure to this violent experience,” he said. Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a comprehensive and speedy investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of the deceased.
While condoling with the family, the commandant general of the NSCDC, friends and professional colleagues of the deceased, the IG reassured them that everything humanly possible would be done to ensure that justice prevails in the case. This was contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, who also stated that the IG equally “enjoins that the NSCDC, along with the family of the deceased, may, for the purpose of transparency, nominate any medical doctor of their choice to witness the autopsy, at the appropriate time and venue. “Needless to state that an autopsy, which is a comprehensive forensic examination on the body of a dead person, will help the investigators to have a definitive understanding of the real cause of death of the deceased.”