Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba Acting Governor of Delta State, Mr. Kingsley Otuaro, has charged Nigerian military authorities to expedite action that would lead to the release of all the abducted girls still in the custody of Boko Haram terrorists and quickly end insurgency in the North-east of Nigeria. While commending the Nigerian Armed Forces for helping to maintain peaceful environment for oil production as well as exhibiting professionalism during the recent general election in Delta State, the acting governor said insurgency, particularly in that part of the country, has remained a sore point in the country’s security challenge. Otuaro made the remarks during a courtesy call to the Government House in Asaba last Wednesday by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratai. Buratai is in the state to participate in arrangements for the burial activities of former Chief of Army Staff, late Major-General David Ejoor who hailed from the state. Otuaro said: “I want to also commend the strategic role your formations have played for maximum security, especially in oil producing areas in the state, which is one of the topmost oil producing states, with so many infrastructures to protect in Warri South, Warri South-West, Warri North, Burutu among other areas. “The military has partnered Delta State Government for the resultant peaceful oil production environment with improved economic intake. There is need for greater security collaboration as achievement of our goals is dependent on security, which is why we set up several institutional structures, including Advocacy Committee Against Vandalism of Oil and Gas Facilities. Our partnership with presidential initiative on the Niger Delta resulted in increased oil production.” On the activities of insurgents, Otuaro said: “We are proud of what you are doing in the North-east region against insurgency. You have our support to bring this insurgency to an end. We have no country other than Nigeria. Let us celebrate the end of this insurgency soon. I urge you to work harder to also release our abducted girls still in custody.” Responding, Buratai, who congratulated Otuaro on his 51st birthday, said he was in the state to condole with the family of late Ejoor ahead of plans to bury the distinguished former COAS and also see the new 63 Brigade in the state capital. According to the COAS, “On the 63 Brigade in the state, I’m impressed at the work going on and also appreciative of the support given by the state government. Your Excellency, we have so much in common because as one who studied peace and conflict resolution at the University of Ibadan, you are given to the pursuit of peace. I assure you that the Nigerian army will work within the constitution to provide the needed security in the country. The support of the Delta State Government, which has been unconditional, is a morale booster.”