Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti A senator-elect and All Progressives Congress chieftain in Ekiti State, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, has appealed to those elected in the last general elections to represent the people  to learn from the  birth and death of Jesus Christ for  Nigeria to witness radical  development. Bamidele said the life and time of Jesus Christ exemplified humility, sacrifice,  and love, stating that any leader who fails to imbibe these virtues would end up failing the citizens. He said in the spirit of love and affection that Christians must pray against incessant cases of insurgency, kidnapping and all forms of killings in some parts of the country as they celebrate Easter. Bamidele expressed worries over persistent killings in Borno and the way rampaging bandits had held Zamfara State hostage in recent time, saying time has come for all citizens to intercede through prayers on behalf of the nation in curbing all these menaces. In his congratulatory message in Ado Ekiti on Friday commemorating  the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ,  Bamidele said no leader would loot the collective patrimony of the citizens, if he remembers what Jesus went through on the cross for the people to be freed from bondage of sins and afflictions . “What Easter connotes are humility, sacrifice, love  and brotherhood, time has come for all citizens to refrain from class differences in the fashion of ethnic and religious colouration in line with the preaches of Jesus Christ that we must live as one. “Having passed through the 40 days of Lenten period, Christians should have learnt that life is a vanity and that sacrifice was required to build a nation. “Jesus Christ died on the cross to save the world   despite having the opportunity to overcome his traducers. Our leaders must learn how to be selfless and remain incorruptible in spite of limitless chances to amass wealth the way Jesus did,” he advised. The senator elect  praised  Christians for their sacrifices to fortify  Nigeria’s unity through prayers and  co- existing peacefully  with their Muslim brothers.