Ayodeji Ake TGI Distri Limited has launched Terra Seasoning Cubes, the latest on its stables. Available in all markets across Nigeria, Terra Cubes is produced by West African Cubes (WACUB) Limited at its ultra-modern plant in Sagamu, Ogun State. Addressing the press during the official launch of Terra Cubes in Lagos on Monday, TGI Group Executive Director and Managing Director of TGI Distri, Mr. Sunil Sawhney noted, “Terra Seasoning Cubes are a true cooking sensation allowing everybody to enjoy great taste. He said the cubes which come in two variants; beef and chicken, both come in single cubes of 4gram, adding that Terra Cubes have particularly been designed to meet the palate requirements of all Nigerians, especially in terms of aroma and flavour. Responding to a question on why he believes the new brand will be accepted by the market, Sawhney said: “We believe in studying the needs of our consumers and acquiring genuine insights into their requirements and demands. “We respond to these requirements with better products and services that enhance the quality of life. We support our product offerings with strategic marketing and sales initiatives”. “Terra Seasoning Cube is an outcome of painstaking research; it is many steps ahead of other brands in the market in terms of taste and aroma. I enjoin everyone to try it”, he added. Also speaking at the product unveiling, Executive Director – Commercial of TGI Distri, Dr. Onyekachi Onubogu, said Terra seasoning is launching with two SKUs to address different pocket power: 50-cube pack and a 25-cube pack. “We are also launching with five free cubes in the 50-cube pack and two free cubes in the 25-cube pack as a consumer promo”, he added. Giving reasons for the choice of the brand’s pay-off line “Locks the aroma in; Gets the taste out”, Onubogu said Terra Seasoning Cube has been formulated and manufactured to preserve the aroma of meals during and after cooking. TGI Distri Limited is a member of the TGI Group, former owners of Chi Limited, producers of Chivita and Hollandia. The conglomerate has continued to grow, and owns other reputable companies such as Cormart (Nigeria) Ltd, WACOT Ltd, Chi Farms Ltd, WACOT Rice Ltd, among others.