The premium property market in the nation’s capital, Abuja, got a boost recently with the successful completion of the elegant EFAB Crystal located in Gwarimpa. EFAB Crystal is the newest addition to the string of residential housing estates from the staple of EFAB properties Limited, a firm known for adopting innovative approaches to property development. The 26-unit housing estate, built on two hectares of land, is located off third avenue, 36 road by Mike Okonkwo close, Gwarinpa. The exquisite estate has 20 stand-alone and 6 semi-detached 5-bedroom duplexes complete with pent houses and boys’ quarters. Considering the cost of production and the relative utilities of the properties, many would consider the prices of the units cheap. A unit in the estate goes for a price range of N85-N90 million and buyers would get their keys three weeks after confirmation of payment. The site engineer, Mr. Justice Dike, who shed some light on the cost of the properties said the houses were affordable and moderately charged in view of location in the high-brow area of Gwarimpa. He said in order to encourage ownership by different class of people, potential buyers would have the opportunity to make outright purchase by making full cash payment or pay by instalment. “Instalmental payment can be made within a minimum of three months and maximum of six months.
“Everything is done except the fittings. That will be done when payments are made, so when you pay, you give us a minimum of three weeks and a maximum one month to complete the fittings,” he added. EFAB Crystal estate is one of the numerous projects undertaken by EFAB developers, which had previously completed estates such as EFAB Metropolis Along Kubwa Express, EFAB Lokogoma, EFAB Mbora 1,2, 3, And 4, EFAB Queens, EFAB City Estate Dakwa and many more all in Abuja. All the estates have made remarkable progress in terms of infrastructure development, such as roads, drainage channels which are continuously adding to the development of Abuja. Being a major player in real estate sector in Nigeria, EFAB limited have supported the federal government severally. They built 1000 units of houses and handed over to Police Corporation in 2014 while in 2015, EFAB donated a three-bedroom flat in Dakwa area of Dei Dei, Abuja to father of quintuplets Mr. Imudia Uduehi as a social responsibility project. Focussed on helping People own their own houses irrespective of their social strata, Chief Fabian Nworah, the Chairman of Efab Properties Limited, established a mortgage bank, which is a first generation mortgage bank, to give mortgage to people that want to buy houses. Nworah is an accomplished entrepreneur and philanthropist whose life of service for humanity follows the pattern of highly successful businessmen the world over.