Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited has been awarded the ‘Downstream operating company with the most impactful local content development initiative in recognition of its contributions to local content development in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The award was handed over to the company at the Nigerian Oil and Gas Opportunity Fair (NOGOF) in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, where Pinnacle Oil and Gas was eulogized for championing local content promotion. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, Bayelsa State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson and top oil and gas operators were present at the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) powered second edition. Famed for its first mover advantage in pioneering the development and construction of a world class petroleum products handling facility at the Lekki Free trade zone in Lagos, Nigeria, Pinnacle oil and gas was among others recognised by the NOGOF for this facility which would comprise a 600,000 MT tank farm for storage on the shore, connected to Single Point Mooring (SPM) and Conventional Buoy Mooring (CBM) facilities. The SPM/CBM which Pinnacle oil and gas has pioneered in Nigeria, are infrastructure for the offshore offloading of large vessels without any need for them to come to shore or use a jetty. The detailed Nigerian content opportunities for which Pinnacle was recognised are, hands on training in the assembly of SPM and CBM; welding and fabrication  works’ hands on training; tank farm erection; instrumentation installation; sub contracts, security, insurance and financial services. This year’s NOGOF fair, a biennial affair was themed ‘Maximizing investments in the oil and gas industry for the benefit of the Nigerian people’. It had the objective to bring together major players across the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors as well as the government and industry regulators to showcase opportunities in the Nigerian oil and gas industry and present available in-country opportunity. Commenting on the recognition, Peter Mbah, CEO of Pinnacle Oil and Gas, noted that the award was a confirmation of its confidence and continuous investments in the Nigerian economy.