Mary Nnah In a bid to afford opportunity for stakeholders to exhibit and explore the untapped business potential of Central and West African Pharma Markets, plans have been concluded on the Nigeria Pharma Manufacturers’ Expo 2019 (NPME 2019) billed to hold from August 28-29, 2019 at New Haven, Oba Akinjobi Street, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria. NPME, which is the biggest International Pharma Manufacturing Exhibition in Central and West Africa is the definitive Pharma event and is known to attract close to 200 exhibiting companies from six countries and nearly 10,000 pharma and related sectors’ trade professionals from across the region. The theme of this year’s edition is ‘Strategic Collaboration for Medicine Security, Affordability and National Sufficiency’. The major objective of the Pharma Expo is to create a platform for pharma machinery and equipment, raw and packaging materials, laboratory equipment, chemicals, and reagents manufacturers to meet and engage with the local pharma manufacturers and other stakeholders at this West and Central African Expo. The event is also aimed at encouraging further development of local manufacturing and production of high quality, safe and affordable medicines. NPME traditionally showcases a wide range of equipment and inputs which cover the entire pharma manufacturing industry, including allied industries such as Biotech, Nutraceuticals, cosmetics, beverages, food and distilleries. This year, delegates are expected from across the continent, including Nigeria, Ghana, Chad, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Niger, Burkina Faso, and Benin. According to Dr Fidelis Ayebae; Chairman, NPME 2019 Expo Committee; the exhibition will be a more matured event to businesses not only within Nigeria but also across the entire West African pharma markets. NPME 2019 would be an event to update and upgrade the pharma manufacturing technologies on bases of ATTEND – EXPLORE – EVOLVE. He stressed further that during the two-days exhibition, NPME will be offering an unparalleled business networking with Nigeria and the West African pharma markets. NPME 2019 is jointly organised by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria (PMG-MAN) together with their partners – GPE EXPO PVT Limited. Online registration for trade visitors has commenced and can be completed instantly at www.NigeriaPharmaExpo.com .Pharmacists and other Healthcare and Allied Professionals from Nigeria and neighbouring countries have already begun registration as visitors for the exhibition. Further information on exhibiting at NPME 2019 can be requested to email: info@NigeriaPharmaExpo.com or from www.pmgman.com. PMG-MAN is the umbrella body of the Local Manufacturers of medicines and healthcare products in Nigeria with over one hundred and twenty members who own and operate established factories that manufacture life-saving medicines. The group is critical in ensuring that Nigerians continue to have access to high quality and affordable medicines.