By Ugo Aliogo As part of activities marking the 20th anniversary of the Lagos Achievers Lions Club, a part of Lions Club International District 404A1, Nigeria, the club has renovated 33 toilets and completed a borehole project at Obalende Primary School, Lagos. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony recently, the President, Esther Ajuma Ogo said the project was subject to availability of funds and prioritisation of already identified needs, adding that the club would do more in the school. She said the club is focused on schools with serious needs, adding that the members spotted the primary school and realised that it was in a very bad shape.
“To pick any school, we do a random sampling; we have done eye screening for the Police Community Primary School. We screened 150 children and we discovered that 20 of them needed eye glasses and five needed operation, which we have taken care of with the help of our district governors and the regions. “To celebrate our 20th anniversary, we felt we should do a sampling of the school that really needs basic facilities and repair those facilities in order to assist the children in learning. We noticed that the toilets were blocked and bad, and they had no water system. Therefore, we had to do borehole drainage and we had to change it, provide 33 water cisterns and wash basins.
“We are looking at engaging two or three teachers for the school so that the classes will be spread. We also realised that in the classes they don’t have chairs and it is part of our continuous project which we are going to do complete our work and make them very stable.”
Ogo added that the club has made arrangements to get a cleaner that would be taking care of the toilets especially in sanitation and maintenance daily.
She said the club has realised that the school doesn’t have enough teachers; therefore it is making plans to engage a teacher to ensure that the pupils are not crowded and they are well taught in class. It was learnt during the event that as part of a plan to educate the teachers and pupils on proper sanitation and plastic waste management, the club also provided litter bins in strategic places around the school; it also engaged a sanitation officer to help with the reduction of litter and supervision of the renovated toilets.