Sylvester Idowu in Warri
Two Chevron companies – Texaco Nigeria Outer Shelf Ltd (TNOS) and Star Deepwater Petroleum Limited and their partner and parties in the OML 132 and Agbami field respectively, have donated a hybrid library, two science laboratories to schools and a modern Chest Clinic to hospitals in some states across the country. The gesture was in continuation of the social investment efforts of the companies aimed at providing quality education and healthcare to Nigerians. The hybrid library was donated to International Model Government School and Preliminary Studies, Takum, Taraba State by TNOS and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), while Star Deepwater Petroleum Limited and its Agbami parties, Famfa Oil Limited, NNPC, Equinor Nigeria Energy Company Limited and Petroleo Brasileiro Nigeria Limited, donated science laboratories to Yerwa College, Maiduguri, Borno State and Government Science Secondary School, Dutsinma, Katsina State.
The fully-equipped Chest Clinic was donated to Government Chest Hospital, Jericho, Ibadan, Oyo State. The events took place at Abuja and Ibadan respectively.
Chevron’s Director, Deepwater and Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs), Mr. Rick Kennedy, who was represented by the Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, (PGPA) Lagos, Mr. Mike Kabi, explained that the science laboratories, hybrid library and chest clinic donated to the schools and hospital were part of the educational and health infrastructural facilities implemented by the parties to improve the academic performance of students and provide access to good healthcare for Nigerians. He thanked the state governments for partnering with the donors to execute the projects.
Kennedy, also emphasised that the Agbami parties were in support of the view that education was key to unlocking the potential of the youth and developing their capacity for societal relevance. For the intervention in health, he said, “Our support for health is inspired by our view that quality healthcare delivery is a crucial social service that will help build a healthy citizenry and develop the country.” The representatives of the parties also took turn to explain the social investment philosophy of the donations while highlighting the importance of education and health to the socio-economic development of the country. Receiving the donation on behalf of their state governments, the representatives of the Taraba, Borno, Katsina and Oyo state governments applauded the donors for the kind gesture. They assured that the facilities would be put to good use, expressing delight in the timely delivery of the projects which came at the time they needed educational and health infrastructures most. The Agbami parties and other Chevron companies in the Deepwater horizon have made substantial investments in education and health infrastructure, especially in science education through the building and donation of science laboratories, hybrid/conventional libraries to schools and fully-equipped Chest Clinics to hospitals and institutions across Nigeria.