Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Graduate Inspectors and Rank and Files of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) have pleaded with acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Abubakar Adamu to re-recommend their list to the Police Service Commission (PSC) for upgrade to ASP, adding that they believe that his emergence at the new IGP was a blessing to them. In a press statement by the group and signed by Sgt. Abdulmajeed Lukeman, the Police officers lamented that, “Since December 2015, we, the graduate Inspectors Rank and Files passed through screening and examination and we were shortlisted for upgrading to ASP based on educational qualifications via signal CB:7510/DTD/FHQ/ABJ/VOL 7/11 151800/06/2015. “The examination and the screening were done by the Police Authority in conjunction with Police Service Commission in various States and Zonal Commands. After the screening, 50 successful candidates were shortlisted from each State of the federation, including FCT Abuja according to our States of Origin and Local Government Areas, which made up to about 1,850. “All our original confidential files, service register and other sensitive documents have been in the custody of the Department of Training and Development (DTD) Police Force Headquarters FCT Abuja unattended to.” The concerned Policemen observed that last year on the 13/11/2018 a Signal No. CB: 7510/DTD/FHQ/ABJ/VOL.8/2 Tittle: “ASP PROMOTION COURSE ON EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION” was dispatched to all police Commands and formations “ordering them to send fast Couriers to report at FHQ Abuja on 09/12/2018 to collect our files and return them for retention. However, the Couriers went to FHQ and they were not given to them. Sending the files to various commands and formations would have signified zero hope for us.” They said their hopes were lifted with the emergence of Adamu as the IGP, especially with the professionalism he had brought into the force, restoration of discipline, and with the ongoing restructuring.  The group recalled that the IGP had promised during his takeover speech to reform the police force and provide the right leadership the force required at this difficult time.  The statement added that the entire Police force was delighted when the IGP expressed his avowed commitment transparency, responsiveness, accountability, knowledge, and welfare, adding that it was in line with that commitment that we plead with you to re-recommend our list and send it to the Police Service Commission for upgrading to ASP  “We plead that you revisit the pending promotion of these intelligent and focused Inspectors, Ranks and File which are not born with silver spoons in their mouth but have strived through hard times to go to school. This will motivate other younger officers to upgrade themselves educationally for the betterment of the Nigerian Police Force.”