With the conclusion of the first round of knock-out matches, the Trophy 5-a-side Field of Honour tournament has entered the next round geared towards producing the successful 16 teams that will vie for the top prize. The first round matches were exciting as teams came with their supporters who cheered them on to victory, fighting for the top position that will see them play for N3 million, as well as, earn bragging rights of being the best 5-a-side team in the country. In addition, the winning team will proceed to the Pan African regional finals taking place in Tanzania to compete for the African title. They will also have the opportunity of meeting with Samuel Eto’o, the African ambassador for the tournament. Five lucky winners, also known as super fans, will be selected to accompany the victorious team to Tanzania on an all-expense paid trip. The selection of the super fans has commenced and four of the super fans will be selected via in-bar recruitments across the four states. One super fan will be selected online. To qualify for the super fan draws, fans are to visit select bars where they will get a scratch card upon purchase of at least two bottles of Trophy lager. With the scratch card, fans can win either t-shirts, face caps or receive a raffle ticket. At the finals of the tournament, a live raffle draw will be held and four lucky winners selected to go on the trip to Tanzania. A fifth winner will be selected via online draws. The maiden edition of the tournament is currently taking place the across four states of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and Osun States as a pilot phase. Subsequent editions will cover more states and eventually extend to the 36 states of the federation. The next round of matches will begin April 13 and 14 across the four states. In Lagos, they will hold at National Stadium Surulere, Trade Fair Complex Mini Stadium, Ojo and Gbagada mini stadium. In Oyo State, matches will take place at the Liberty stadium, Ibadan, Adamasigba stadium, Ibadan and Ogbomoso stadium. Matches in Osun will take place at the OAU football field, Arubidi football field, Ile-Ife and Osun State University football field, Oshogbo. In Ogun State, the draws and matches will happen live at the MKO Abiola stadium, Abeokuta, practice pitch Dipa Dina stadium, Ijebu Ode and Honda football field, Sango. All participating teams will go home with memorabilia and other merchandise in appreciation of their participation. The semi-final and final matches will take place May 11.