Emma Okonji
The Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) at the weekend celebrated its one year of providing mentorship experience to entrepreneurs and business leaders across a diverse business spectrum in Africa. The celebration coincided with the graduation ceremony of its sixth business and entrepreneurship masterclass cohort.
Speaking at the occasion, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Ausso Leadership Academy, Austin Okere, noted that the strides of the academy in just one year was a validation of its founding purpose, which was to, “mentor entrepreneurs to institutionalise and scale their businesses geometrically”. He also thanked all stakeholders for their commitment and support.
According to him, “one year from inception, ALA has remained true to its purpose of mentoring entrepreneurs that will, in turn, become the drivers of sustainable economic growth, creating an oasis of outstanding businesses in Africa. So far, we have enjoyed ever-increasing recognition and endorsement by key stakeholders. “This is highlighted by the visits of the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investments, Dr. Okey Enelama; former Minister of Communications and Technology, Dr Omoobola Johnson; Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mrs. Aishah Ahmad, the CEO of the various exchanges, Mr Oscar Onyema (Nigerian Stock Exchange), Mr. Bola Onadele (FMDQ) and Mr. Bola Ajomale (NASD); the DG of the National Pension Commission, Muhammad Ahmad (OON), the Deputy British High Commisioner in Nigeria, Laure Beaufils, and many other notable champions.” According to Okere, “Indeed, we are grateful to everyone that had committed themselves to this initiative. Without you, we would not have come this far. And, we count on you in our quest to continue to mentor the giants of today and tomorrow.” In his testimonial, a Business Gladiator of the Academy, Mr. Udukheli Izebuno, said, “every aspect of this insititution has been carefully designed for the next generation of people that will do great things. I think #ALA is properly designed and properly targeted to attract these set of entrepreneurs.”
Okere, had in April 2018, launched ALA “The Entrepreneurs’ Hub”, which was designed to host its flagship masterclasses, mentoring sessions and one-on-one mentoring clinics. In the past year, the Ausso Leadership Academy has mentored about 102 entrepreneurs, representing 10 major corporates from diverse industry sectors and about 44 medium enterprises. It has equally hosted 47 Champions of Business and Entrepreneurship to share their experiences and it has impacted about 400 guest delegates with its open sessions; in line with her commitment to building a strong community of Nigerian business leaders and entrepreneurs.