Rebecca Ejifoma In commemoration of World Kidney Day, Healing Stripes Hospital has acquired an Apheresis machine with the intent to reduce medical tourism and provide innovative care to patients with sickle cell. The Consultant Nephrologist, Healing Stripes, Dr. Debo Akinwunmi, expressed that the machine was efficient in the treatment of several conditions like renal issues – brain and nerve issues and blood related diseases. Akinwunmi noted that Apheresis is a medical technology that can be used to remove unwanted materials from the blood without tempering with other constituents. According to the expert, apheresis machine aids in the treatment of sickle cell to reduce the risks associated with the genetic condition. “It can be used to remove sickle red cells and replaced with normal red cells to ease crises and organ damage in a procedure called exchanged blood transfusion,” he said. The nephrologist noted further that the procedure was not a cure but gives patients relief for a long time.
“We used to refer patients to England to take the produce and recently to India but the acquisition of the technical device would reduce all the risks associated with traveling and curb medical tourism,” he said. Akinwunmi, however, lauded City of David of the Redeemed Christian Church of God for its corporate social responsibility to humanity. Speaking also, the Doctor in Charge, Healing Strides, Dr. Ezinne Onyemere commended the church for the machine, saying it would aid in providing advance technology of choice and precision to patients care. “This machine has the ability to perform 10 protocols. But for now, the hospital will focus on three pressing ones: therapeutic apheresis, plasma and red blood cell exchange.” These experts urged the government to be actively involved in awareness creation because Nigeria’s population cannot be over emphasised. They also called on public spirited individuals to be involved as well. “We have not done enough on the awareness of kidney diseases. We need to do more. We need more voice and government involvement,” the experts added.