Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Nigerian Police Wednesday charged to court two traffic wardens, Idoko Sunday, and Katdel Dabit, following their complicity in the death of an operative of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The duo clubbed to death, a staff of the NSCDC, the late ASC Ogar Jumbo, in the presence of his family, in spite of repeated pleas from the wife and children. Forensic analysis by a pathologist as seen in the autopsy report clearly traced the cause of death to injuries inflicted on the deceased during his encounter with the traffic wardens. Specifically, the autopsy report states in part that the death “was due to blunt force injury to the head and multiple skin and soft tissue injuries on the fore head and face”. The autopsy report concluded that “there was no natural disease in the body to sufficiently explain the sudden death”. A statement issued in Abuja by the Nigerian Police Force Headquarters, said the two policemen were charged to court following their complicity in the death of the NSCDC officer. The statement signed by Force PRO, Frank Mbah, said the duo were subjected to orderly room trial and dismissed before their arraignment. “In keeping with the assurances by the Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to ensure a transparent, accountable, comprehensive and speedy investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of the late ASC Ogar Jumbo, an Assistant Superintendent of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Nigeria Police have today (yesterday) arraigned in court the two traffic wardens, TW GII Idoko Sunday and TW GII Katdel Dabit, for complicity in the unfortunate death of the NSCDC Officer. “The arraignment of the erstwhile traffic wardens is sequel to the outcome of investigation into the case of alleged discreditable conduct and unlawful exercise of authority reported against them on March 20, 2019. The former traffic wardens had earlier been subjected to the internal disciplinary procedures of the force, tried in an orderly room, and dismissed before the arraignment. Police investigations positively indicted them for assault and excessive use of force on the deceased after his arrest”, the police statement read. The police while regretting the incident, maintained that the police high command would not allow perpetrators of such acts to go unpunished. Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Tragedy struck yesterday in Bauchi State as a female National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) member, Magdalene Yohanna, collapsed at the NYSC orientation camp and later died few minutes after she was rushed to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital (ATBUTH) in Bauchi. THISDAY checks revealed that this was barely four days after the 2019 Batch A corps members reported for the three weeks orientation course at the Wailo camp in Ganjuwa Local Government Area of state. Investigations revealed that on April 1, Magdalene had reportedly complained to NYSC officials about her protracted asthma and how she would not be fit to attend the ‘morning meditation’, but her complainants fell on deaf ears. Against her will, she was forced to attend the ‘meditation’ and collapsed few minutes later. She was immediately attended to by corps members’ doctors and nurses, but when attempts to resuscitate her were not yielding results, she was rushed to ATBUTH to save her life. Further inquiries from medical doctors at the hospital concerning what could have led to the untimely death of Magdalene had no answers as they were not authorised to speak to anyone about her demise. However, a doctor who pleaded anonymity, confirmed that the deceased relatives have been informed of her death, adding that he cannot speak further because he was not authorised to speak to journalists. Several efforts to get the NYSC Public Relations Officer in the state, Artu Marcus, to immediately react to her death proved abortive as he said he was presently in Jos, and would release a statement over the incident when he returns to Bauchi. However, after much pressure, he finally arranged for an interview with the state Coordinator of NYSC, Afolayan James, at Wailo camp, immediately after the closing ceremony for Batch A corps members. THISDAY got to the venue of the ceremony which lasted for about an hour, with the Director General of the corps, Brig. Gen. Zakari Kazaure, in attendance. However, during the ceremony, late Magdalene did not get a single mention neither was she given a minute silence as tribute for her passing. Efforts to get the state coordinator to react on the incident did not also yield results as his Personal Assistant dismissed journalists, citing busy schedules as reason. It was however learnt that Magdalene, an orphan, sponsored her education throughout her higher institution. She was buried last Friday at her home town in Kaduna amid tears and pain.