Tiger Woods yesterday produced a scintillating finish to win a fifth Masters title and end an 11-year wait to claim a 15th major. There were raucous celebrations around the 18th green as Woods finished with a two-under-par 70 to win on 13 under, one clear of fellow Americans Dustin Johnson, Xander Schauffele and Brooks Koepka. Overnight leader Francesco Molinari’s hopes sunk with two double bogeys on the back nine and he had to settle for a share of fifth on 11 under. Woods, written off by so many so often as he battled back problems in recent years, punched the air in delight, a wide smile across his face, before celebrating with his children at the back of the green. “I’m a little hoarse from yelling,” said the 43-year-old. “I was just trying to plod my way around all day then all of a sudden I had the lead. “Coming up 18 I was just trying to make a five. When I tapped in I don’t know what I did, I know I screamed. “To have my kids there, it’s come full circle. My dad was here in 1997 and now I’m the dad with two kids there. “It will be up there with one of the hardest I’ve had to win because of what has transpired in the last couple of years.” It is the first time Woods has come from behind in the final round to win a major and it his first Masters victory since 2005. He is now just one behind Jack Nicklaus’ record of six wins at Augusta National and three behind his fellow American’s overall major tally of 18. It caps a remarkable resurgence for Woods, who missed the 2016 and 2017 Masters with his back problems, finally undergoing back fusion surgery in April of that year. A superb 2018 followed where he challenged at The Open before finishing joint sixth and pushed eventual champion Koepka close at the US PGA Championship. He then capped off the season by winning the Tour Championship, his 80th PGA Tour title and this victory puts him one behind the record of 82 held by Sam Snead. Molinari, who played with Woods in the final round as he won The Open last July, dumped his tee shot into Rae’s Creek at the front of the green and walked off with a double-bogey five. Tony Finau, also in the final group, followed Molinari in the water to drop back to eight under. The more experienced Woods, who was playing his 22nd Masters, played to the heart of the green and two-putted for par to join Molinari at the top of the leaderboard on 11 under. That par was cheered like a birdie by the thousands of patrons who have followed his every stroke this week, alerting more and more to join the party and roar Woods home. Others were challenging from behind with Schauffele and world number two Johnson posting four-under-par 68s to set the clubhouse target at 12 under. Molinari faded further after hitting his third shot into the pond guarding the 15th green and from that moment there was no stopping Woods’ relentless march to the title. A par on the 17th left the world number 12 with a lead of two shots going up the last – only Brooks Koepka, who has won three of the past seven majors, could realistically put any pressure on but the American missed an eight-foot birdie putt to stay at 12 under. Woods appeared to fluff his second shot to the 18th, leaving it well short of the green and could only chip on to 14 feet, but a straightforward two-putt sealed the win.