Oluchi Chibuzor Traditional rulers under the auspices of Heritage Forum have stated that Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is critical in preserving cultural values and heritage. The remark was made at the Ogun State organised by Heritage Forum in collaboration with Igbein Descendant Forum on Digital Empower Schemes for Africa Traditional Institution with the theme: ‘Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow’. Speaking at the event, the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Ogun State, Heritage Forum, Mr. Basorun Oladipo, said the founders have realised the need to provide another arm to address some specific issues among traditional rulers and also give opportunities for a more robust participation through regular networking and interaction. He noted that the infusion of technology has helped in promoting rich values of local contents using social media tools in the areas of lifestyle, mode of dressing, historical values, language, culture, food, and religion. According to him: “We have successfully tapped into these local contents to actualise unity, peace, knowledge sharing, cultural empowerment which was made possible through technology and help in tourism through the online platforms where the Diasporas can learn everything about the culture here in the country. “The essence of the programme is to bring together all the Yoruba’s through the Obas which are over 2000 in numbers and there is sense in unity and when you are united there will be development.” While commenting on his recent appointment as the President-General, Chairman Lagos Chapter Heritage Forum, Oba Babatunde Ogunlaja said having been installed as a traditional ruler 15 years ago, he has never visited the community before. He said: “Heritage Forum made us to know each other and it’s this forum that makes most of the Obas to unite together.” In his remarks, the host, Dr. Oluwole Makinde said the community has many heritage sites that tourists can visit, adding that “we are open to investors to come into our town”. It was learnt from the event that the use of ICT would help to uphold the scared culture from going extinct in line with Ooni of Ife, Babatunde Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II’s vision of preserving culture.