Deji Elumoye in Abuja Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, has said the 8th National Assembly will pass both the Police Reform Bill and the Police Trust Fund Bill before the legislative body winds down in June. Saraki, who made this known on Wednesday while receiving the acting Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, in his office at the National Assembly, emphasised the federal legislature’s commitment to strengthen the nation’s security architecture. According to him, both the Police Trust Fund Bill and the Police Reform Bill, which are at various stages in both chambers of the 8th National Assembly, would help to bequeath a more effective and efficient Police Force to the country. “Funding is a major issue, and I know that a lot of work has been done to ensure that the Police Trust Fund Bill get to its current stage in the House. Before the end of the 8th Senate, I want to assure you that we will pass this Bill. “Another critical issue is the Police Reform Bill which has gone through Public Hearing with major input from stakeholders. We started this process before your tenure, but we can still allow a few more days before it is laid, so that you too can make your contributions. “We would like you to take a close look at this bill alongside the committee, so that by next week, we can lay the report of the bill and pass it. Once we begin to address the issue of funding and institutional reform of the Police, many of the recent incidents that we have seen like the abductions yesterday on Abuja-Kaduna road, and the killing of the young man in Lagos, will also be addressed”. “While stressing the importance of the Nigeria Police to the nation’s security, Saraki further said that “apart from us ensuring that the institution is well-funded, we need to ensure that the Police play its constitutional role in the security of our nation and across party lines; the police can be reassured of our support to strengthen it as an institution”. Speaking earlier, Adamu, stated that the nation’s security challenges are so high but the resources are limited. “It is our view that the passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill would assist in strengthening the institution and alleviating many of the challenges that we face,” Adamu added.