Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja Nigerian Air Force (NAF)’s Special Forces Wednesday killed two armed bandits after a fierce exchange of gunfire in Rafi and Doka villages of Mada District in Gusau Local Government Area (LGA) of Zamfara State. According to NAF’s statement, the 207 Quick Response Group, which was deployed to the area subsequently secured the two settlements. This is coming as troops of the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army have arrested five kidnappers and rescued five hostages in Jugbere Village in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. In an update on the war against armed banditry in Zamfara and other North-west states, NAF said the special forces encountered heavy gunfire from the bandits. “In response to reports that high profile armed bandits were gathering around Rafi and Doka villages of Mada District in Gusau LGA of Zamfara State, which is under the Area of Responsibility (AOR) of the 207 Quick Response Group (207 QRG), a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Special Forces (SF) team was dispatched to the area yesterday to secure the two settlements and thwart the bandits’ plans. “Upon arrival at the location, the NAF SF team encountered resistance in the form of heavy gunfire from the bandits. However, the brave SF personnel employed superior tactics to outlast the bandits, who were soon low on ammunition, before engaging and overpowering them. “Two bandits were neutralised in the process while others fled with gunshot wounds. Since then, the SF Team has been conducting aggressive patrols in the area, especially the fringes of the forest, to forestall any reprisal attack,” a NAF statement said. Meanwhile, troops of the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army located in Akure, have arrested five kidnappers and rescued five hostages following reports it received of nine kidnap incidents in the area. A statement signed by the Assistant Director, Army Public Relations of the Brigade, Captain Victor Olukoya, said following reports it received, a raid was conducted on the kidnappers’ hideout in Jugbere village of Owo LGA in Ondo State. “Following credible information of kidnap incident involving nine persons at Mr. Godwin Ugu Integrated Agric Farm Owo, troops of 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure have in the early hours of today (yesterday) at about 1:00 am, conducted a raid operation on the kidnappers’ hideout at Jugbere village in Owo Local Governnent Area of Ondo State. “The operation resulted in the arrest of five kidnappers and rescue of five hostages and four other abductees escaped from the kidnappers’ den on arrival of troops. “The rescued hostages and the arrested suspects, who had minor injuries have been taken to the Brigade Medical Centre for medical examination/treatment”, it said. The Brigade said troops recovered weapons, charms and handsets from the kidnappers. “The suspects will be handed over to the appropriate civil security agency at the conclusion of preliminary investigation.”