Mary Nnah The annual faith-based teaching forum, “The Word Explosion Conference”, hosted by The Fountain of Life Church, started last Sunday with several ministers gracing the event. The vision of the convener of the annual event, Pastor Taiwo Odukoya, is to reach believers across denominational divides with the Word of God in a way that is simple, practical and ultimately transformative. Since its inception, the Word Explosion Conference has featured dynamic and gifted preachers and teachers of the Word and the 2019 edition will play host to national and international seasoned ministers of God. Among which are, Bishop David Abioye, Dr. Mike Okonkwo, Dr. Cindy Trimm, Pastor Tola Odutola, Bishop Bobby Hogan, Pastor Chris Ugoh and the hosts, Pastors Taiwo, and Nomthi Odukoya. This year’s edition, ongoing at the Fountain of Life Church Main Auditorium located at Ilupeju Industrial Estate Road, Ilupeju, Lagos, which will last till April 21 was themed, “New Creation Realities”. Addressing the press on the ongoing programme, an assistant pastor in the church, Pastor Alfred Ohiani, said this year’s edition promises to be a remarkable time of Bible teachings, prophetic declarations and supernatural insights. He said: “The annual programme usually comes in as a means of celebrating our anniversary. The church had its first service in April 16, 1992. So with the anniversary week every year, we always have what we call Word Explosion Conference. “One, the word God gave to the senior pastor when the church started was, ‘For wherever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.’ The interpretation is that, where the word of God is, the people will be there because they would be strengthened.” He said therefore that the “Word Explosion Conference is a time to bring ministers from different parts of the world just for them to come and give whatever the Lord has given to them, which in most cases is to support what we are being fed with by the senior pastor and other minsters in the church.” “It has been quite great and this week promises to be a wonder week for every member and we should strive to be present during the remaining days for the conference. It is a weeklong event, which started last Sunday and would be rounded off on Sunday, April 21st.” “I have been with the church right from inception and God has been faithful to us. This year will mark our 27th anniversary”, he noted further. Ohiani who said the church has done quite a lot in its bid to impact positively on the society, noted, “One of the things the ministry is very much into is affecting communities. We have a lot of community-related programmes like supporting children in schools, medical outreaches and many more, which the Pastor Taiwo Odukoya got the vision years back and we are doing everything that would continue to uplift the lives of people in our community.” He stressed that the ministry is focused on ensuring that homes are established on a solid and godly foundation so as to affect the society at large and to ensure that minsters that would continue to affect the society positively are raised.