The Lagos State Government has joined force with  Hypo, the flagship brand of Tolaram Group, to raise awareness on healthy lifestyle  to mark the 2019 World Health Day. The World Health Day is an initiative of the World Health Organisation that  aimed to focus  greatest minds on issues of global health as well as set world health agenda in years to come. With this year’s theme as  ‘Universal Health Coverage’,  the Lagos State Government through its Ministry of Health, Environment as well as  Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation and the Hypo brand, have harped on healthy lifestyle for a well body. To drive home their points, both parties engaged members of the public in a 5 kilometer sensitization walk, health symposium and a  community cleaning exercise. Speaking at the symposium, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris,  represented by a Director in the Directorate of Disease Control, Dr. Agbolagoriite Olurotimi, reiterated the importance of clean environment, exercise and balanced diet to a healthy life,as he urged members of the public to take cognizance of these three areas. He also commended Hypo  for supporting government efforts at ensuring the wellness of Lagosians through it various health focused programmes. Also speaking, representative of the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Barrister Oluwatoyin Odusanya, said: “The brand has made its mark by focusing on a need that  has existed since the beginning of time. Even the bible says cleanliness is next to godliness, this we believe is a philosophy worth embracing by all and sundry especially the teaming population of women who are  saddled with the responsibility of keeping our environment and household clean”. As part of activities to mark the day was the cleaning up of Alaka Estate in  Surulere, Lagos, which saw  popular celebrities Hon. Desmond Elliot and Mide Martins,  participated in the sanitation exercise. Speaking on the sanitation exercise tagged ‘Team Up to Clean Up’,  Brand Manager, Hypo, Onome Asagbra, said: “It  is an activity imbibed by the brand to bring all stakeholders together to clean up their neighbourhoods. The aim of this exercise has always been to elaborate the importance of a clean neighbourhood in disease prevention and control;  and to stress the importance of everyone coming together to raise the standards of health and hygiene around us.”