A political organisation, Edo in Safe Hands, has endorsed Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Hon. Philip Shaibu, for re-election in the state’s 2020 gubernatorial election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Spokesperson of the group, Mr. Nosa Idele Ogbeide, in a statement issued yesterday, said the group threw its weight behind the governor because of his unprecedented development and focused leadership, which has endeared him to all Edo people. According to him, “Our decision to canvass for the nomination and reelection of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Hon. Philip Shaibu, under the platform of the APC in the 2020 gubernatorial election in Edo State is premised on the fact that the administration has done well in the three years of its first term in office.’ Ogbeide said the administration’s reforms have touched on a lot of issues that the people hold dearly, which is why there is a groundswell of support for the government, calling on the party structure to respect the wishes of Edo people. “We insist that the APC in Edo State should ensure that Obaseki/Shaibu gets the party’s nomination. The governor’s reelection in 2020 will be taken care of by Edo people as payback for his visionary and impactful leadership,” he said. According to Ogbeide, the Obaseki/Shaibu-led administration has rekindled hope in Edo people among who are “traders, teachers, pensioners, and youths, among others.” He noted, “For prompt payment of teachers and other civil servants who are being paid monthly as and when due, when workers in some other states are languishing in penury, the Obaseki-led administration deserves reelection to continue its mandate to develop the state. “As things stand today, every Edo person is proud of what the state government represents and the unwavering commitment to improving livelihoods through infrastructural development and socio-economic reforms. Traders cannot forget in a hurry Governor Obaseki’s zero tolerance for illegal collection of levies and taxes by touts in markets. They don’t want a return of the dark days. “Anybody who wants to acquire land in Edo State for whatever purpose can do so with ease. This is because of Governor Obaseki’s boldness in stamping out the activities of hoodlums,” he added.