Peter Uzoho Heads of state, ministers, leaders of multilateral development banks, private sector executives, women entrepreneurs, and contributing governments of the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi) recently convened at their first regional summit to discuss concrete ways to strengthen support for women-led small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in West Africa. Attended by more than 400 public and private sector leaders from West Africa and other regions, the summit was organised by We-Fi in collaboration with the African Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the World Bank Group.
It was hosted by the government of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
According to a statement, the summit concluded with a joint Call to Action, urging wide-ranging public policy reforms and private sector actions to help women entrepreneurs overcome persistent barriers, both financial and non-financial. “Women constitute the majority of Africa’s self-employed population and play a key economic role, with significant benefits for their families, communities, and countries,” summit leaders noted in a joint statement. Acknowledging the challenge of full economic participation, they stressed that: “Women entrepreneurs also face other barriers that prevent them from accessing finance, markets, technology, mentoring, and capacity-building support. This limits the potential of women entrepreneurs and impedes economic growth and poverty reduction across Africa.”
Due to these constraints, female entrepreneurs in the region consistently lag men on several key indicators of business performance, the statement added.
A recent World Bank study found that monthly profits and sales from female-owned firms in the region were on average 34 percent and 38 per cent lower, respectively, than those of male-owned firms.
Participants at the summit called on governments to undertake policy and legal reforms to increase women entrepreneurs’ access to financial services, government contracts, and the basic infrastructure of the digital economy. They also highlighted the urgent need to remove labour and mobility restrictions for women and to ensure their equal rights to property. In the past decade, African governments had improved women’s economic inclusion by implementing 71 legal and regulatory reforms-more than any other regions in the world, according to a World Bank report.
While African countries have made significant progress in closing the gender gaps, further strengthening women’s roles as entrepreneurs would transform the continent.
Acknowledging the importance of public and private sector collaboration, the summit leaders underscored the vital role that private sector and civil society organisations play in improving women’s access to capital, markets, digital skills training, mentorship, and business networks. In addition, they called for better collection and reporting of sex-disaggregated data by both the public and private sectors to help measure the impact of policy reforms on women entrepreneurs.
“I am pleased that Côte d’Ivoire hosted the first regional Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi) Summit,” President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Alassane Ouattara said.
“Women play as critical a role as men in the growth of our economy. I am confident that this summit will result in concrete actions and expand opportunities for women’s entrepreneurship across West Africa,” he added.
“I was honored to join our We-Fi partners and inspiring entrepreneurs in a meaningful dialogue with West African leaders on the economic empowerment of women.
The White House, and the whole of U.S. government, stands firmly behind the goal of economically empowering 50 million women through W-GDP by 2025 and in so doing, championing American values of freedom and equality around the world.
“This mission is crucial to the peace and stability of Nations and is achievable if we focus our collaborative efforts on job training, entrepreneurship and breaking down the legal and cultural barriers that restrict women from achieving their full economic potential,” Advisor to the President of the United States of America, Ivanka Trump said. “Through the Affirmative Finance Action for Women in Africa (AFAWA) program, the African Development Bank is transforming financial markets by de-risking lending to women on the continent. We invite all stakeholders to join us and be part of this game-changing initiative that will result in greater women empowerment,” said African Development Bank Group President Akinwumi A. Adesina.