…hails Buhari, Oshiomhole, cautions detractors As the 2020 gubernatorial elections in the state beckons, the Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has passed a vote of confidence on Governor Godwin Obaseki, committing to sustaining support for the governor’s administration and policies.  They also noted that the party’s remarkable outing in the 2019 polls, especially the State Assembly elections, was an ‘implicit and explicit confidence vote’ on Governor Godwin Obaseki by citizens of the state.  The submission was contained in a statement signed by State Publicity Secretary of the APC, Chris Azebamwan, which conveyed the outcome of a State Executive Committee Meeting of the party, held on Thursday, April 11, 2019.  He said, “Members were unanimous in their conclusion that the House of Assembly election results equates to a referendum of the administration and the performance of Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki as Governor. It, therefore, amounts to an implicit and explicit vote of confidence on him by the citizens of Edo State who have, in very clear and unmistakable terms, indicated their preference for a House of Assembly that would be supportive of the vision and mission of the Governor without any distraction whatsoever.”  “Members, therefore, resolve that in line with the mandate, the party would continue to sustain its avowed commitment to give the government and administration of Mr. Godwin Obaseki the needed support to keep it focused and on track,” he added.  He said the EXCO congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for his well-deserved victory, and the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliu Oshiomhole for the overall success of the party in the general elections nationwide.  The party’s scribe added that members of the Executive Committee reviewed the recently concluded Presidential, National Assembly and State House of Assembly elections in Edo State, and commended all Party members and critical stakeholders for their hard work, dedication and loyalty, that resulted in the overall success of the party in the elections.  He said members of the Executive Committee, noted in particular, with gratitude to God, the unprecedented achievement of the 24 seats in the 24-member capacity State House of Assembly elections, which has now come to be known as 24/24