Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti For deeming it fit to immortalise their members, Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) and Afao Development Council (ADC), have applauded Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for naming four newly established secondary schools after four distinguished citizens of the state. YCE, in a letter dated March 25, 2019, and signed by its Secretary-General, Dr. Kunle Olajide, said the gesture is a pointer to Fayemi’s “commitment to entrench in the state the enduring values of service, patriotism and diligence for which Ekiti people were known and respected for in the past.” Commending the Fayemi-led administration decision to name the new institutions after Prof. David Oke, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, Prof. Banji Akintoye and Chief Deji Fasuan, the YCE stated that Fayemi’s “second coming is indeed the dawn of a new and glorious era for Ekiti State.” The Council assured Fayemi of its support in the “arduous task of restoring our values and piloting our state for progress and development. “I recall with nostalgia the day in Adetiloye Hall during your first coming when you, for the first time since the creation of Ekiti State, publicly recognised and acknowledged the efforts of the few of us under the leadership of Fasuan whom God used with our traditional rulers to achieve the creation of our dear state. Your sense of history is highly commendable.” The Afao Development Council in their letter dated March26 and co-signed by the Alafao of Afao, Oba Joseph Ademilua, and the President of the union, Chief Laolu Omosilade, commended Fayemi for naming one of the newly established schools after Fasuan, an indigene of the town. The community union said the action was not just a honour but “merit justified by posterity” because of the role played by Fasuan in the struggle for the creation of the state, adding that the gesture is a manifestation of the fact that the Fayemi-led administration recognises excellence and selfless contributions of Ekiti people. According to the group, “This will also foster a lasting cordial relationship between your government and majority of Ekiti citizens who mainly have this erudite statesman as mentor and benefactor, and it is also a pointer to the fact that your administration is here to restore Ekiti values.” The newly established schools are to commence academic activities in September this year, while arrangements have been concluded to establish two additional ones by next year. The governor, whose noted that his administration plays much premium on human capital development, said his administration would continue to recognise and reward excellence service to the state.