The organisers of the annual Nigeria Transport Awards, Lecture and Exhibition, have given reasons why the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode was chosen as the Transport Governor of the Year 2018. According to a statement made available to Transport Day newspaper, organisers of the event, say the Governor was selected based on his achievements in the transport sector. Editor of Transport Day newspaper, Mr. Frank Kintum stated that the governor was nominated “based on his outstanding achievements in transport infrastructure development, especially in Computerised Vehicle Inspection Services, LASTMA reforms, modern bus terminals, Improved Water Transport System and Modern Road Network Development in Lagos state in the last four years”. The event holds on April 18, 2019. Aside the Governor, the Group Managing Director of NAHCO Aviance Plc, Mrs. Olatokunbo Adenike Fagbemi; Global Convener/chairperson of Women in Logistics and Transport of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Nigeria, Hajia Aisha Ali Ibrahim; General Manager of Mandilas Motors, Kemi Koyejo, Director Engineer, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Engr. Salisu Daura, as well as the Managing Director of LAMATA, Engr. Abiodun Dabiri are some of the others to be honoured. Others are the Managing Director of Nigerian Railway Corporation, Engr. Fidet Okhiria; Director General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council, Mr. Jelani Aliu; among others. Aside, the awards, the President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Dr. Uche Messiah Olowu, is to lead other participants in the discussion which brings together industry stakeholders and players in the finance sector. According to the Chairman of the organizing committee, Mr. Frank Kintum, the theme of this year’s event is is-“Financing the Transport/Allied Industry: Stock Taking and Paving the Way Forward.” Kintum, stated that the need to review the level of financing the transport industry gets and to discuss a better way forward, made the topic very important. He said “the transport industry is very important in the scheme of things in the country and we need to be concerned about how it is financed, as well as proffer solutions for a better approach”. The organisers added that the event has been divided into two sessions, with the morning session hosting the talk shop and discussions, while the night session will be an awards and review night. It would be recalled that contemporary issues had also been discussed in the past editions by prominent personalities like the Managing Director of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), then Managing Directors of Lagos Area Metropolitan Transport Authority (LAMATA) and the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). 