Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja The Kogi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State as four years of waste, insisting that it cannot point to a one single completed project built by the administration. The main opposition party in the state, however, said Director General Media and Publicity to the governor, Kingsley Fanwo, lied on National Television. The position of the opposition party was contained in a statement signed by the state Publicity Secretariat of the party, Bode Ogunmola, and made available to journalists in Lokoja. The party, which was apparently reacting to the position of Fanwo who appeared on Politics Today on a Channels Television, to say the administration of Bello has several completed projects to its credit, described it as “white lies,” saying there is no project for President Muhammadu Buhari to commission. The PDP called on the Director General Media to seek forgiveness from God as well as apologise to the people of the state for his “woeful performance in turning logic on its head and peddling lies to deceive members of the public. Ogunmola insisted that no single project, aside hunger, poverty and the many suicide committed by the people, can be attributed as infrastructure development of Bello’s administration. It described as false the allegation that the administration of Governor Idris Wada accessed a N20 billion Bond, saying for the records, “the administration was only able to access N8 billion from the money while it is on record that the balance of N12 billion has been accessed by the present administration. According to the PDP, out of the N8 billion the PDP administration got, it began work on the dualisation of the Welcome to Lokoja to the New Market road, which is now abandoned by the present administration. The statement also added that with the bond financing, the PDP administration completed the multi million naira motor park, began work on the bye pass road from Ganaja to the Secretariat Junction, began work on the 14 storey Kogi House in Abuja, the Shoreline protection and embankment along Kabawa, the construction of 500 housing units in Ganaja and crusher and 58 water projects across the state. Other projects executed by the Wada administration with the bond money, according to Ogunmola, included the Kogi Hotels which he said the present administration is finding difficult to paint and put to use in four years among several others captured under the bond project. The party noted with disappointment that the uncompleted Omi rice project, a private initiative, is a conduit pipe to defraud Kogi people, asking where is the confluence rice? But assured the people that every stolen money of the state would be recovered, saying the APC administration is a deceit. PDP said it is shameful that in four years, Bello could not invite President Buhari for inauguration of any project nor any of the governor’s colleague to inaugurate projects initiated and completed by his administration, asking Bello to forget a second term after his monumental and woeful performance. It further noted that Kogi people are wiser and so are not ready to go through another round of no salaries, no pension, harvest of suicide, no infrastructure development, but government sponsored thuggery and violence. The state PDP asked Bello to live with the illusion that because it overwhelmed the PDP in the presidential and National Assembly elections using thugs, guns, assisted by people in security uniforms, saying the Kogi people know those who truly won in the state House of Assembly election. The party in the statement assured the state that the expiry date of the All Progressives Congress APC-led administration in the state is November governorship election, assuring them that it would win overwhelmingly, as “never again would wickedness and inhumanity be allowed to prevail in the state.”