Amnesty International has called for the probe of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) police unit for killing a football fan while he was watching a televised football match in Lagos last Sunday. Kolade Johnson was reportedly shot accidentally by SARS officers who had been pursuing another man at the football viewing centre. Amnesty International has documented a pattern of grave human rights violations carried out by SARS since 2016. “Kolade Johnson is the latest victim of the SARS police unit which has become notorious for extrajudicial killings, torture and extortion,” said Osai Ojigho, Director of Amnesty International Nigeria. “This appears to be an unlawful killing which must be impartially and thoroughly investigated, with any officers suspected of criminal responsibility for wrongdoing brought to justice in fair trial before an ordinary civilian court. “It is shameful that more than two years since Amnesty International highlighted crimes under international law and human rights violations by SARS, these shocking incidents continue unabated.” According to reports, Kolade Johnson was hit by a stray bullet when SARS officers tried to disperse a crowd during an operation to arrest another man. There has been a public outcry over the killing, with thousands of people using the #EndSARS social media hashtag in the past 24 hours. “Nigerians will no longer accept the brutality being unleashed against them by SARS on an almost daily basis,” said Osai Ojigho, Director of Amnesty International Nigeria. “SARS is a police unit created to protect the people. Instead it has become a danger to society, torturing its victims with complete impunity while fomenting a toxic climate of fear and corruption.” Amnesty International’s investigations into the activities of SARS across Nigeria since 2016 have exposed the callous workings of a police squad operating outside of the law. The September 2016 report ‘Nigeria: You have signed your death warrant’ showed how the unit has been systematically torturing detainees as a means of extracting confessions and bribes. All subsequent government pledges to reform SARS, including one by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in August last year, have amounted to nothing. In addition to its stated remit of tackling violent crime, in some cases, SARS investigates civil matters and has tortured detainees involved in contractual, business and even domestic disputes. Victims of SARS crimes are often legally powerless to defend themselves against criminal accusations and torture.