The Balogun Oko-Osi/Olubete royal family of Gan-un in Ogun State, have dragged the state Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun to the Ota Division of the State High Court over alleged encroachment into the family landed property situated at Gan-un Village, Ifo Local Government Area of the state. Ogun State Attorney-General and some unknown persons were listed as co-defendants in the suit. The suit was filed on behalf of the entire family by the family head, Chief Nureni Farombi; a principal member of the family, Chief Hakeem Balogun; traditional ruler of Gan-un town, Chief Babatunde Adenekan, and the family secretary,Chief Bisi Ayinde Abass. In the suit, the claimants alleged that on September 1, 2018, a signpost was allegedly erected on the land by Amosun indicating that it belongs to Ogun State Government and that trespassers will be prosecuted. The family heads said they were shocked at the action of the governor, adding that all efforts and overtures towards getting him to understand that the land belong to them were unsuccessful. The claimants further disclosed that the governor’s presence on the land was not caused by them and that they had in no way sold or consented to the sale of the land. They added that they were never at any time aware or put in the know or on notice of the interest of any defendants, either on grounds of compulsory acquisition, purchase, allocation or however adverse and or superior title that would have warranted the right to lay claim of ownership to any portion of the land. In their statement of claims, the claimants claimed that they are the rightful owners of the landed property measuring an area approximately 339,178 hectares (838,109 acres). The claimants said the land has devolved by inheritance from their ancestors who have been in possession and ownership from time immemorial. The claimants said they have from time being in possession, ownership and exercising every acts of control on the land, having inherited same from their ancestors who were the first settlers and in ownership from time immemorial. The claimants averred that their founder, their great grandfather, the original settler of the land, Olubete was an herbalist, a great warrior and an hunter of renowned skill who on his way from Ile-Ife originally stopped at a virgin forest at a place called ‘Onikobo’, the present day Arepo in pursuit of greener pasture. They added that Olubete and his grandson, Balogun Oko Osi seeded the land to them. Consequently, the claimants are seeking the following declarations among others: “A declaration that the Balogun Oko-Osi/Olubete royal family are the persons entitled to the statutory rights of occupancy of the land. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants, their servants, agents and or provides from entering into, interfering with the ownership and possession of, and/or otherwise dealing in any manner whatsoever with the landed property”. The family is also claiming general damages of N2 million per plot of land allegedly trespassed upon by the defendants. The defendants are yet to file their defence to the claimants claims as at the time of filing this report.