Kano Pillars Head Coach, Ibrahim Musa has said that he accepted to rejoin the club to prove his critics wrong. Musa was sacked immediately after the 2018 Aiteo Cup defeat to Rangers International during which Pillars surrendered a three-goals lead to eventually lose in the penalty shootout. Musa who later rejoined the team on Match Day 4 of this season insisted that he decided to return to the club to win the league and prove his critics wrong. “I want to prove my critics wrong this season by winning the league with Kano Pillars. We are on the right track by God’s grace, we want to be part of the three teams to make it to the continent this season and as well the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) ‘Super Six’ in our group”, Musa declared “I am focusing on winning the league Isha Allah with Kano Pillars this season, we lost out narrowly last season placing fourth before the league came to an abrupt conclusion. Then we lost a game in the finals of the Aiteo Cup as well which was unfortunate”, the Coach noted. He said Kano Pillars have calibrated well to record good performances after a slow start and believes they are on track to complete the season on high. “I didn’t start the season with the club but I am happy we are back on track, we have started achieving results, we have won away from home and picked vital draws on the road”, he pointed out. Pillars play home to El-Kanemi Warriors on Match Day 14 this Sunday and Musa declared that he wants to win the fixture for the teeming fans who have always stood by the team. “Our focus for now is the crucial match against El-kanemi Warriors, it is more like a local derby this weekend, having lost the first stanza in Maiduguri, we will be out to give our fans something to cheer with this weekend by winning the match. “Also, the match after, which is going to be against former league champions Plateau United, it’s going to be more of a double home game for us this time. He concluded by saying, “if we can pick the six points from both matches we are close to our aspiration for the season.