Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has sued for peaceful co-existence, tolerance  and personal sacrifice among Nigerians. In his  Easter Message,  the Speaker said that Jesus Christ laid down his life for mankind and urged  Nigerians to emulate his  exemplary life. According to a Press Statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Dennis Otu,  the Speaker harped on the need for peaceful co-existence, tolerance,  love, forgiveness  and sacrifice among all  Nigerians. According to him, there was no sacrifice too much for Nigerians to make for  the peaceful coexistence and   unity of the country. While  felicitating   with Christians on the Easter celebration,  he  appealed to all to sustain the prevailing peace in the country, saying no meaningful development could take place where there was no peace. “May the celebration of the passion and death of Jesus Christ bring total renewal of God’s favour, grace and blessings in our lives and the nation. We  should continue to live in harmony with one another. Let us  leave our comfort zone and make personal sacrifices for others. We just have to tolerate each other for the betterment of our society,” he said. The Speaker who used  the  opportunity of the Easter celebration by Christians all over the world to call on Nigerians to sustain the prevailing peace in the country to attract more dividends of democracy, said that; “As a people, we must protect the interest of the state and the country always. We should always shun violence and try as much as possible to tolerate one another for the love of our dear state and country.”                “Let us continue to make sacrifices for one another just as Jesus Christ did, who is the reason for this season. Let us spread love and forgiveness. Let us emulate the exemplary life of our Lord and Saviour. “As we mark the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, it is my prayer that there should be peace in all parts of the state and our dear nation,” he added.