COUNTERPOINT With Femi Akintunde-Johnson In continuation of our “crusade” clamouring for drastic changes in our parenting and guidance “syllabus” as the grundnorm for a progressive and egalitarian society, we shall make space today for a rehash of what, for lack of adequate choice of words, can be described as the ultimate whiplash for degenerate parents bent on foisting on this nation more degenerate children, and their even more despicable siblings. Permit me to turn your attention again to a full non-academic dressing-down from the vice-chancellor of a private faith-based Nigerian university, ostensibly, on the social media group of “concerned parents” of his wards. Prof. Dapo Asaju was both incisive and surgical, in cutting through the decadent layers of muddled, pampering and slothful hemorrhoids called “modern” parenting. You are cordially invited to look into this mirror, search for your likeness…and make appropriate adjustment…for the sake of your legacy, and the well-being of your country.  “Dear Parents, Greetings. It is not likely that I will post any (message) on your platform after this. I must express my shock at the behavior of some parents and their messages against the VC and the University in recent times. It is not common for VCs to exchange words with parents or students over matters of University rules, discipline and morals. I’m not sure you individual parents interacted with your VCs where you studied. My simplicity and availability has been abused and that has to be withdrawn forthwith. You sent your children to Ajayi Crowther University believing that they will get good education and sound morals. The discipline here is no where near that of some sister Christian Universities which are over subscribed. The development going on here academically, spiritually and infrastructure-wise has been much improved and works are ongoing to make things better. Students ought to have some endurance and not be spoilt with claims and rights that shouldn’t be fought over. What happened recently? Based on your protest we have after one day’s trial, reopened the hostels at all hours and released your children to choose whether to study or sleep in hostel when they should be in classes. They now have freedom to choose whether to fail or pass. We shall henceforth not treat them, in your words, like “Secondary school students”. Some of you will bear the consequences of your indiscretion. But we will not allow anyone teach us how to run our system. I wish you all the best and may you and your children do that which is right in the sight of God and for the future good of the coming generations. Amen. ––Rt. Rev. Prof. Dapo Asaju, Vice-Chancellor, Ajayi Crowther University”.