Nume Ekeghe Sigma Pensions Limited recently took its ‘Walk to Live Campaign’ to major streets of Enugu with a view to encourage healthy living amongst staff, customers and members of the larger society, especially for pensioners. The event which held early hours of last Saturday saw participants including pensioners march from Okpara Square, through Bisalla Road, down to New Haven Junction and back to the starting point. The Managing Director of the Pensions Fund Administrator (PFA), Mr Dave Uduanu, said the walk was aimed at promoting health among staff and their customers, as well as promote the brand in the state. The managing director said that similar exercise had been conducted in Abuja and Lagos, adding that the hinterlands were not left out. “We are trying to connect with our customers across the country and to encourage them to be healthy to enjoy their pensions. “We have done it in Abuja as well as in Lagos and now connecting with those in the hinterlands. You have to live to enjoy your pension,” he said. Uduanu said the PFA was signing new customers in the state and that the response was massive. On the launch of a pension plan for the informal sector by National Pensions Commission (PenCom), the managing director said that Sigma Pensions was well positioned to queue into it. “We are operationally ready to go into the informal sector. We have the funds and the manpower,” Uduanu said A retiree and customer of the organisation, Mr. Adesina Odunmbaku, said he was excited at such exercise organised by Sigma Pensions. Odunmbaku urged other PFAs to take a cue from the event with a view to ensuring healthy living among their members of staff and customers. “This is a novel idea which should be emulated by others. Sigma Pensions has good services and they give customers personal attention,” he said. Odunmbaku said that the organisation was one of the best in pension funds administration. Another customer and staff of Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Mrs Ruth Kalu, said she felt good to be part of the exercise. “I am impressed with what they are doing. They are simply the best,” Kalu said. Highlight of the exercise was an aerobic exercise involving the participants.