From Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja A former aviator turned beauty consultant, Mrs. Kemisola Ajetunmobi, has bagged leadership award for her sterling contributions to promoting self-financial reliance among women. The honour was bestowed on her by the Institute of Leadership Development (ILD) based in the FCT in recognition of her contributions to women empowerment and financial independence through network marketing. At a public unveiling of the recipient, the Chief Executive Officer of ILD, Kachi Okezie, said the institute recognised her sterling qualities and achievements in personal development, team building and digital marketing training to women and girls. Okezie also stressed that the award was in line with the institute’s vision of recognising and rewarding success in leadership and leadership development by individuals and corporate organisations. “The recipient is a multi-talented entrepreneur, who over the years built a vast network marketing industry, enabling her to rise to the top echelon of Oriflame, the Swedish global cosmetics group, when she has just become first executive director for Nigeria, the first in Sub-Sahara Africa and the 67th in the world,” Okezie said. He described her as an inspiration for young women throughout Nigeria, many of whom she mentors through her online seminars and conferences, noting she is helping women to discover the power of financial self-sufficiency in their quest for peace and stability in their various families. In her response, Ajetunmobi, appreciated the institute for the honour, while calling on women to be self-reliant to bridge the gender gap in the society. She used the occasion to reveal that she had created an online TV show called Boss Like a Mommymillionaire to be officially launched in May 29, 2019 with the main objective of focusing on network marketing education to encourage women and young girls to use the platform to be financially free without being scared of scamming. Fielding questions from reporters on her journey so far, she said: “It was a simple decision to sell cosmetics, lipsticks and fragrance to supplement my salary in the aviation industry as I was searching for something I could do from home that could give me time for my family. “Today, it has fully blown into several impact full experience for so many people across Nigeria, including mothers and young ladies. Down the line, I have achieved so much more than I thought I could achieve in five years.”