Mary Nnah In commemoration of this year’s Easter Celebration, The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement has concluded plans for a two-day power packed crusade titled, “God’s Covenant of Peace and Blessing”, scheduled to hold on Saturday, April 20 and Sunday, April 21 at The Chosen Revival, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, Ijesha, Lagos State. According to a press statement signed by the Church’s Director, Public Relation, Pastor Louis Chidi, this special, which is going to be anchored by General Overseer, Pastor Lazarus Muoka is divinely inspired to help bring to mind the significant of Ea,ster which symbolises the victory of Jesus Christ over death and which by extension is the victory over hopelessness and misery. “It is at Easter that we are reminded of how God sent His son to die as a sacrifice for all our sins in order to rescue us from the impending destruction that has been earmarked for us as a result of the sin of Adam and Eve. Thus, by His death and resurrection, the covenant of peace and blessing which mankind originally had with God at creation was restored. Christ thus became the great sacrifice.” “So, the concept of Easter is inextricably tied to peace, hope and blessing, and these are the intangible chords that help people to get beyond the sad and sordid situations that might bog them down and give them a sense of hopelessness.” Easter he said therefore brings that optimism that no matter how difficult or how challenging a situation or condition may be, having knowledge of the resurrection will remind you that if Jesus could defeat death, then all things are possible. It also suggests that as bad as the prevailing situation might appear, there is the expectation that things will get better if we accept Jesus as our Lord and Saviour.” He therefore advised the nation to use the opportunity availed by the occasion of this year’s Easter to promote peace and love in the country, as this is the only way we can acknowledge and appreciate what Jesus has done for humanity, adding, “And truly if there is any time we need peace more than before in this country, it is now.” The release noted further that, “This weekend as we return to God with apology for our sin, peace shall return to all and the entire country shall rejoice. There shall be reign of blessing of peace and joy. No participant will go home empty handed because God Almighty has seen the hopelessness they are subjected to and therefore has scheduled the crusade to shower peace and blessing of unspeakable joy to them. Era of political, economic and social anxiety will end after this power parked crusade and the nation will be great again.” The crusade as usual is expected to attract an unprecedented crowd going by what was witnessed in the last event, so participants are advised to come on time. Free transport arrangement has been made by the ministry to convey people to the venue from any location within the Lagos metropolitan city.