By Adedayo Akinwale in  Abuja The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has called on the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the presidency cabals not to kill President Muhammadu Buhari with undue pressure. Secondus stated this yesterday while inaugurating 27 Presidential election campaign committees at the party’s campaign office in Abuja. He stressed that from what Nigerians and international community are witnessing around the President lately, it’s apparent that he is tired and incapable but they would not let him. According to him, “There is no way this President can cope given what we are witnessing and added to the incompetence in leadership, Nigerians have been seeing in the last three years. For selfish reasons these power grabbers are putting undue pressure on the President even as it’s evident that he can no longer cope.” The PDP chairman  warned that Nigerians are not ready to take anything less than free, fair and credible election. He said, “Our fear is that the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu lack the will and courage to ignore the pressure from the APC to conduct free and transparent election. But he should know that he would be held responsible for any fall out from a rigged election.” The National Chairman while congratulating the new Inspector General  of Police, Muhammed Adamu, reiterated his earlier call on him to clear the mess left behind by his predecessor and run the police force professionally and responsibly. Secondus stated that the main opposition party would continue to protest the membership of Amina Zakari as a National Commissioner of INEC. He added, “We called for her resignation from the commission but instead they appointed her as the Chief collation officer, we must continue to oppose her because she is a master rigger, we have evidence of what she did in Ekiti and Osun states.” The chairman said that the visit of the presidential candidate of the party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to US  has doused the blackmail, saying that would restore the image of the country. 