First Bank of Nigeria Limited has said it is supporting schools with their business requirements to promote preparations for the school year. This, the bank stated that it achieves through its array of educational based products and solutions targeted at enabling schools acquire their required educational facilities to boost the continued expansion of their schools whilst empowering parents and guardians to seamlessly send their wards back to school. According to FirstBank, its educational products and solutions include the FirstEdu Loan, Operational Vehicle Loan, Term Loans for constructing new sites and extension of existing sites, Personal Loan against Salary (PLAS) and Salary Overdraft (SODA) which enhances parents’ capacity to pay their children’s school fees. It explained in a statement that the FirstEdu loan is targeted at private nursery, secondary and A-Levels schools.
The product offers opportunity for private schools to access flexible funding to meet urgent cash flow needs, replace old furniture and equipment, as well as refurbish dilapidated buildings and classroom blocks, the bank explained. “With this product, school owners/proprietors can stay ahead of competition in providing educational services and support to the target population by maintaining acceptable standard infrastructure at all times. This product allows the customer access up to N10 million with no tangible collateral required apart from the domiciliation of school account with the Bank. This reduces the cost of borrowing to the customer and eliminates the challenges posed by the provision of additional demanding collaterals. “The operational vehicle loan is targeted at registered businesses. It allows the entrepreneur to acquire brand new vehicles for the day to day operation of the business. Organisations can take advantage of this facility to purchase school buses in the case of school proprietors and even upscale their staff welfare schemes through provision of staff buses. The product terms and conditions is competitive,” it added.