Ngozi Jibulu The Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) has honoured Nigeria Information Technology Reporters’ Association (NITRA) with the Telecoms Industry Support Award in recognition of its efforts at sustaining the telecoms industry and charting proper course through the platform. The award was presented at a recent ceremony attended by several industry stakeholders in Lagos. According to the award organisers, NITRA won the award for its contribution to the telecoms industry since it was inaugurated in 2017, having been operations since 2015. NITRA received the award at the 20th Anniversary/Awards Nite of ALTON on Friday, November 29, 2019 at the Shell Hall, MUSON Center, Onikan, Lagos. While receiving the award, NITRA Chairman, Emma Okonji, said the award is an indication of the immense work done by the Association to smoothen the operations of the telecoms industry across the country.
Okonji thanked the organisers of the award for the Association’s recognition for the prestigious award and promised that NITRA will always ensure that its members give their best to the industry for the operators, regulators, customers and other stakeholders to offer and get excellent services. “We feel honoured for this award from ALTON. Beyond being a close partner with ALTON, we have been in the forefront of issues concerning the telecoms industry. This gesture is a spurring symbol for NITRA to contribute more to the industry and the country,” Okonji said. The award ceremony was witnessed by Rear Admiral Alison Madueke (Rtd) who the Chairman of the award, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami, who was represented at the event, among other industry stakeholders. In his remarks in honour of NITRA, ALTON Chairman commended the NITRA for her doggedness in setting agenda for the industry through the members’ objective reportage. According to Adebayo, ALTON, which is an umbrella body of all licensed telecoms operators, would continue to protect telecoms investment in Nigeria and ensure telecoms expansion across the country.
NITRA, under the purview of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, is an umbrella body for journalists reporting Information and Communications Technology in Nigeria. In commemoration of its 20 years Anniversary, the Association of Licenced Telecommunication Organisation of Nigeria (ALTON) which is the umbrella body for telecom operators in Nigeria, celebrate the achievements and milestones recorded in Nigeria telecom industry so far. Adebayo noted that 20 years after the liberalization of the telecom sector in Nigeria, the section has attracted over $68 billion Foreign Direct Investment and contributed over N15 trillion to Nigeria economy.
He said the country has moved from one cellular mobile network with limited coverage and 26,500 connected lines to four GSM operators, two VoIP operators, four Fixed Wired operators with 172.9 million mobile subscriptions and teledensity at 123.5 per cent. “After 20 years, Nigeria boasts of over N15 trillion contribution to its economy, over 123 million internet subscriptions across various technology platforms (e.g. VoIP, GSM & Fixed Wired), with sector contribution to GDP at 11.4 percent and over USD68 billion Foreign Direct Investment. This is worth celebrating,” he said. He added that Nigeria is today Africa’s largest telecoms market in terms of subscriptions, stressing that beyond growth in sheer numerical terms, telecoms have evolved from being a sparsely-available public utility to becoming a social overhead capital.