Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo; Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola; former Heads of State, General Yakubu Gowon and General Abdulsalami Abubakir, have charged Nigerians on the essence of selfless service to humanity, describing it as ‘ultimate’ to national development and nation building. They implored Nigerians to imbibe philanthropic spirit by dedicating their wealth and resources to service God and to impact positively on the lives of others. The four eminent Nigerians spoke  at the weekend while Unveiling and Dedication of Owa Ofokutu (Memorial) Ecumenical Centre (OOFEC), in Ilesa, Osun State. Owa Ofokutu, was the Paramount Ruler of Ijesa land from 1842-1856, and the edifice was built, donated and dedicated in his memory by Professor Debo Adeyemi of Ofokutu’s royal family. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Chaplain, State House, Abuja, Pastor Seyi Malomo, called on Nigerians to promote unity, love and togetherness. Osinbajo who described unity as central to development, said Nigerians must begin to see  strength in their diversity. In his remarks, Abubakar, described the good gesture of the donor as “phenomenal and worthwhile.” He advocated the need for Nigerians to renew their faith in God by rededicating themselves to the service humanity. On his part, Gowon, urged Nigerians to emulate the good gesture of the donor. Gowon noted that the dedication of the buildings to service humanity was an affirmation to biblical verses. He urged the people of Ijesa land and its environs to put the facilities to good use. Inaugurating the edifice, Oyetola, urged Nigerians to focus on things that can strengthen the bond of unity. He implored well-spirited Nigerians, irrespective of their religious beliefs and persuasions, to emulate the motive and the noble initiative that can strengthen the ties of unity in the country. While commending the donor and the entire family of Owa Ofokutu royal family for dedicating the edifice to the glory of God and to service humanity, Oyetola said, “this is a commendable community service. I, therefore, call on other wealthy individuals to emulate this gesture”. He further said: “Beyond the fanfare and the solemn dedication ceremony of today, this event has an underpinning philosophy of ‘all-inclusiveness’ attached to it. The concept of ‘Pan-denominational’ Ecumenical Centre symbolises the onenes and the bonded unity of the church, which is awesome, and towers above all other mundane considerations. “The life and time of Owo Ofokutu and the building of this Ecumenical Centre have great import for the unity of Nigeria and its people. It is a clarion call to us to believe in the things that bind us together.” The donor, Professor Debo Adeyemi, attributed the gesture to divine inspiration from God. He urged Nigerian particularly the rich to always share their blessings and wealth with others since they could not enjoy their wealth while the  majority are suffering. Adeyemi commended the administration of Governor Oyetola for the high sense of patriotism and commitment to the well-being of the citizens. He extolled the governor for building on the legacy of peace, unity and cohesion, urging him not to relent in his efforts at keeping the state  together.