Turkish Airlines, the airline flying to more destinations than any other airline, recently added Rovaniemi to its extensive flight network. Rovaniemi, famous for being one of the most significant locations to witness northern lights, makes the second destination Turkish Airlines flies to in Finland following Helsinki. Starting on 5 December 2019, Rovaniemi flights will be operated reciprocally three times a week on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. Always enhancing its fleet of 348 aircrafts, Turkish Airlines increased the number of its destination to 317 with Rovaniemi. During the ceremony of the inaugural flight Turkish Airlines Board Member Orhan Birdal said; “As the airline that flies to more countries than any other, Turkish Airlines is now happy to add Rovaniemi to its flight network, the second destination of the airline in Finland after starting its flights to country’s capital city of Helsinki back in 1988. We will operate three reciprocal flights to Rovaniemi, one of the most popular winter tourism destinations due to being a premier location to witness the northern lights. As the first airline outside of European Union to have scheduled flights to this destination and the only airline to offer business class product on the flights to Rovaniemi, we invite our guests from all over the world to experience this special city via our extensive flight connectivity that covers 317 cities in 126 countries.” Polar Lights are the result of the interaction between charged particles from Sun and magnetic field of Earth. When this natural phenomena happens in the North Pole, it is called Northern Lights. As it is located on the northern polar line, Rovaniemi is considered one of the best locations to witness the northern lights. The variety of its winter activities and its premier location to experience northern lights makes Rovaniemi one of the most popular winter tourism destinations while it offers different options to its guests from all over the world with eco-friendly glass igloos and ice hotels.