Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday at Ikenne, Ogun State, attended the 80th birthday and Communion Service in honour of Otunba Festus Adesina. Adesina is a Chartered Builder and Construction Project Management expert, who has put in over 40 years in the building industry across the UK, US and Nigeria. The service was held at Our Saviour’s Anglican Church, Ikenne-Remo, the vice president’s hometown.
Former Gov. Gbenga Daniel, Oba Adewale Ajayi, the Akarigbo of Remo Land, traditional rulers, religious and political leaders were also at the service. In a remark, Osinbajo thanked God for granting the celebrant 80 years.
He lauded Adesina for impacting positively on the life of his people over the years.
He said: “God has done wonderful things. I want to join my uncle, Adesina and his dear wife, Kemi, in celebrating this very special day. “I am very grateful to God that he enabled me to see this day.
“I was here yesterday at the funeral of my uncle, Prof. Emmanuel Sofowora, but I had to come back today because no matter what, this is a very special day for me as well, because the man is my uncle. “He is a person, who over the years, has been for many of us young professionals, someone to look up to.
“A solemn professional throughout his life, who just ensured that he did the right thing. “Every one us, who has followed his life trajectory, will know that at all times, he has always set an example of excellence in his job, an example of excellence in his dealings with other people. “For those who are familiar with the work of the interstate architects, we are so proud that it is an Ikenne son who is the head of that international practice and he has done it so well.
“But not just that, we are all familiar with his charitable works, so many have benefitted – scholarships, school buildings, all sorts of charitable things. “But above all, what I admire most about him is his fear of God. The scripture says that it is the beginning of wisdom.”
Osinbajo further extolled the octogenarian for demonstrating that it was possible to do business in Nigeria and be successful and yet have the fear of God. He said: “You are just 80 years. It was when Abraham turned 90 that God gave him a fresh mandate.
“So, you still have 10 years to go before you get another mandate. “So, the mandate for now is the work you have been doing, espcially the work of touching the lives of so many of our people.
“So many still needs to draw from your fountain of wisdom, generosity and kindness.” Earlier in a sermon, Dr Michael Fape, the Bishop of the Diocese of Remo and the Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos, said that Adesina had reasons to be grateful to God. He said that going by the lifespan of Nigerians, attaining the age of 80 was by the grace of God.
Fape therefore urged Adesina to commit his times for the remaining part of his sojourn on earth into God’s hands. (NAN)