“I was relieved when my Brother paid and hooked on to ESPN which streamed the historic (rematch with Andy Ruiz Jr) bout last weekend in Saudi Arabia  live, a mere nerve -wracking three minutes before the commencement of hostilities. Jai Bednall
R1: Cautious opening as you’d expect in a fight of this magnitude. Ruiz scored to the body but Joshua landed a right hand and opened a cut above the American’s eye late in the round. Joshua 10-9 R2: Ruiz continued to stalk forwards and landed a solid jab to Joshua’s temple to open a cut of his own. The Brit fired back to get the blood flowing from his oppenent’s eye again and shaded another round to continue a solid start. Joshua 20-18 R3: Another good round for AJ as he landed a nice left to the body. He’s fighting with discipline and patience and building a lead. Joshua 30-27 R4: The action ignites in the fourth as firstly Joshua, building in confidence, began to take a few more risks. But it cost him late in the round as Ruiz landed the kind of chopping overhand right that did the damage in the first fight and appeared to rock the challenger. Joshua 39-37 R5: Good response from Joshua to the fourth round scare. Further tests await but he’s boxing well and as long as he doesn’t overcommit the path to victory appears clear. Joshua 49-46 R6: Joshua again lands the best punch of the round with a short left hook that snaps Ruiz’s head. We’re approaching the point where the champion will need a finish to retain his belts, but he remains patient knowing he can finish the fight at any moment with the right punch. Joshua 59-55 R7: Signs of frustration for the champ as he’s warned by the referee for a rabbit punch. He hasn’t been hurt yet, but Joshua continues to land the better punches and build up rounds. Joshua 69-64 R8: Here we go! Ruiz shows he’s not handing over these belts without a fight as the eighth round gets messy. The American lands several solid shots, including a left hook, to pull Joshua away from his gameplan and begin the comeback. Joshua 78-74 R9: And order is restored. Ruiz doesn’t bring the same urgency he had in round eight and AJ gets back to business, sticking and moving to shade the round. Joshua 88-83 R10: It’s officially crisis time for the champ. Ruiz has to let his hands go if he’s going to pull this out of the bag. Joshua doesn’t need to take risks. Joshua 98-92 R11: You could argue Ruiz edged that round but he didn’t do anywhere near the type of damage needed to give himself a chance. Joshua 107-102 R12: AJ is back. He punctuates his boxing redemption with a solid right hand to reopen the cut above Ruiz’s eye before avoiding trouble the rest of the way to surely claim a clear points win. Joshua 117-111