By Seriki Adinoyi The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Jos, Prof. Sebastian Maimako, has turned down nomination by an online publication, COA Media, for the award of Plateau Man of the Year. In a statement by the university’s Deputy Registrar, Media and Information, Mr. Abdullahi Abdullahi, the vice-chancellor expressed his appreciation to the organizers of the awards for considering him worthy to be nominated alongside four other very notable and highly accomplished Plateau State indigenes who have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavour and working hard along with others to contribute their quota towards making Plateau great. He said: “To have been so identified in the midst of countless Plateau indigenes who are daily excelling and making indelible marks in their chosen fields of endeavour is in itself a mark of great honour.” But turning down the nomination, Maimako however said he believes “this is not the opportune time to receive such an award as a serving public servant who believes there is still a lot more to be achieved and much more to be accomplished before he finally bows out at the end of his tenure”. He added that: “As professionals, we all have different requirements for discharging our mandates and participating in such a programme that may not be helpful at this time.” Maimako said that if the award organizers had intimated him of their decision before hand, he would have gladly informed them of this conviction and would have saved them the trouble of including his name among those being nominated. “Professor Maimako would therefore wish to humbly decline his nomination and urges COA Media to proceed without him on their list of those penciled down for consideration for the Award,” the statement added. While stressing that his decision was in no way meant to discountenance the importance or prestige attached to such a recognition, the vice-chancellor said he believes that with the array of eminent personalities nominated for the award, the programme is bound to be a success and wishes the organizers greater success in their future endeavours. He also expressed profound appreciation to all those who had expressed interest in his nomination by voting for him and sued for their understanding.