President Muhammadu Buhari has commended the Federal Ministry of Transportation for convincing the China civil engineering company (CECCC) to construct a university of transportation in Daura, Katsina state. Buhari made the commendation during the ground breaking ceremony of the newly established university in Daura on Monday. He said the university would bring rapid development to the nations transport sector as well as generate both academic and none academic employment opportunities to Nigerians. Buhari lauded the management of the Chinese company which pledged to construct the university as part of its corporate social responsibility. He emphasised that such efforts would enhance the existing bilateral relationship between Nigeria and China as well as encourage patronage of local content. He said his administration had placed much priority on repositioning the transport sector especially construction of rail-lines, roads and other transport related utilities. The President said that his administration would continue to create job opportunities through establishment of indigenous industries. He emphasised that the federal government would facilitate establishment of the university through provision of necessary support, as the university would enable Nigeria domesticate railway engineering and transportation. Buhari at the occasion acknowledged the cooperation and understanding of all stakeholders in implementation of federal government projects especially state governments. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Daura University of Transportation would be constructed at the cost of N18 billion within 18 month period. NAN also reports that among the dignitaries at the event were the governors of Kano, Katsina and immediate past governor of Zamfara state, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari. Others were Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of State for Education, Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiba, Zonal Commandant zone B of the Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC), ACG Pedro Awili and his Kano and Katsina states counterparts.(NAN)