Founder Institute, a Silicon Valley based pre-seed Accelerator has announced the elevation of Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. “CFA’, a Nigerian, to the position of Regional Director. CFA’s appointment is coming, barely, less than a year, after he was selected, as one of the four Directors of Founder Institute (FI) Lagos, a well-designed programme with a proven curriculum and support structure that enables founders launch their startups. The Lagos chapter of Founder Institute graduated 21 founders, from its first cohort, after a rigorous 14-week session. Founders, who have experienced, a Navy Seal-like curriculum and training are better equipped to add value to both the Nigerian and the African continent, with their innovative solutions. The journey of these founders, through the Founder Institute sessions, did not go unnoticed, as Stanbic IBTC, recently announced its latest partnership, with the Silicon Valley-based Institute. With success stories as these and the need to set the ball rolling, for building more scalable business models, across the African continent, the appointment of CFA as Regional Director is, coming, at a very good time. With the aim to “Globalize Silicon Valley” and empower talented and motivated entrepreneurs to build companies that will create one million new jobs, Africa is, one sure destination that this can come to fruition and it is believed that CFA will coordinate this successfully, by and by. According to CFA, “Africa is at a defining moment today and entrepreneurship is one of the ways of ensuring that lives are affected positively. “The unique FI model helps to improve the chances of success and the strategy will be to work with other ecosystem builders from across Africa to set up more chapters.” He concluded. Founder Institute assists entrepreneurs, in building enduring companies, with a support network, invested in their success and through a structured business process. Using his network in the field of journalism across online, print, TV and electronic media, CFA is, poised to spread the reach of the Founder Institute, across the African continent. Apart from serving, as one of the current Directors of Founder Institute Lagos, CFA is the Co-founder of GoDoHub, a co-working space, designed to help start-ups scale to the next level.