Rack Centre, the first carrier neutral state-of-the-art Tier III Constructed Facility Certified data centre in Africa that is offering colocation, content distribution, interconnect and cloud services, has announced that it has won the Operations Team of the Year Award at the Global Data Centre Dynamics (DCD) award ceremony recently held in London.
Often referred to as the ‘Oscars’ of the data centre industry, the DCD Awards is a global award recognising worldwide excellence in the data centre industry. The DCD judges recognised Rack Centre Operations team’sexcellent performance in the data centre operation management despite a very challenging operating terrain, characterised by lack of reliable grid power and limited access to skill sets.
The Rack Centre team has continued to achieve set objectives at Nigeria’s first carrier-neutral Tier III colocation data centre, using purely local talent and 100 per cent uptime of the Rack Centre data centre facility. Reacting to the award, the Chief Operating Officer of Rack Centre, Mr. Ezekiel Egboye, said: “Availability is the most critical goal and Rack Centre Operations Team have put in place processes, procedures to deliver 100% availability of services and infrastructure since launch, and an outstanding track record of customer satisfaction. Rack Centre operates the most comprehensive Tier III certified ecosystem of carriers, ISPs and content distribution networks in West Africa.” Rack Centre is not new to winning DCD awards having won in 2018, the Data Centre Manager of the Year Award, which was awarded to its Head of Data Centre Infrastructure, Mr. Sunday Opadijo, the first of such win in Africa. Rack Centre was also the first Africa Data Company to win at DCD award with the Data Centre Impact award for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 2015. Rack Centre is the most connected Tier III constructed facility certified in Africa; it features connection to over 35 of the major carriers and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in Nigeria, Tier 1 networks, pan Africa international carriers, and direct connection to all 5 undersea cables serving the South Atlantic Coast of Africa; every country on the Atlantic coast of Africa is directly connected to Rack Centre. Its CloudonGround services offers locally hosted comprehensive Cloud and content distribution marketplace. CloudonGround brings the hosting of world class Cloud services to Nigeria reducing the entry threshold to high quality Cloud services to the West African region.