The Business Club Ikeja is set to train business managers and organisations interested in improving their performance and productivity. Speaking at its first business luncheon of the year, the President of the club, Mr. Leke Odude, who is the Managing Director of Lektol Insurance, expressed delight at the introduction of its series of Executive Master Class programmes aimed at helping its members and invited companies and staff gain the required knowledge and skills to improve their productivity and realise their missions as businesses and professionals. According to him, “the move is in line with our vision of fostering the building of professionals and professional business practices.” In his remarks, the Deputy Managing Director of Afkar Printing and chairperson of the Programmes Committee of the club, Dr. Adesola Falaiye, said the training programmes are part of series of activities the club will be promoting this year to help people and businesses in Nigeria. “These executive master classes are to be delivered in partnership with the Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS), the international business school based in Lagos. The CIAPS Centre Director, Professor Anthony Kila confirmed that this year, there will be six classes which will run every 60 days. “Each of these classes has been designed bearing in mind the need and with the input of businesses and managers of various companies and sectors. Our aim is to make these classes a place to meet like minds, rub minds and find solutions to the problems that emerge from our constantly changing and challenging environment.” He said participants at the executive classes will leave each course with a clear understanding of how to better manage people, time and other resources that will help productivity and efficiency in their businesses. Topics and sessions this year will include classes on ‘Strategic Planning for Competitive Advantage’ on February 27; ‘ Productive Mentoring for Managers’ on April 24; ‘Emotional Intelligence for Staff and Client Management’ on June 26; ‘Effective Communication for Business’ on August 28; ‘Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance’ on October 30; as well as ‘Business Survival Strategies in Stringent Economies’ on November 27. The BCI executive master classes are open to members of the club, who will get a discount and to other businesses and professionals that might be interested.