Marriott International has launched a global marketing campaign introducing Marriott Bonvoy (MarriottBonvoy.com). The new name replaces Marriott Rewards, The Ritz-Carlton Rewards and Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG). The campaign celebrates Marriott Bonvoy as a travel program with the tag line “Rewards Reimagined” through its 30 hotel brands, extraordinary experiences and rich member benefits. The comprehensive campaign encompasses advertising across television, digital video, mobile, print, social media, out of home, and cinema, as well as special events and member access to partner experiences around passion points like sports and entertainment. In addition, Marriott’s websites and mobile apps, co-branded credit cards and original content such as Marriott Bonvoy guest-room television and digital publication Marriott Bonvoy Traveler all reflect the new name. “Marriott Bonvoy expresses the joy of ‘good travel’ made possible by our unmatched portfolio of hotels, culture of hospitality and unique member benefits,” said Karin Timpone, Global Marketing Officer, Marriott International. “Our aim is to build awareness for Marriott Bonvoy and to inspire more people to travel.” Highlighting the campaign would be television spots directed by Oscar-nominated filmmaker Jean-Pierre Jeunet in conjunction with Marriott Creative and Content Marketing and the agency Observatory Marketing. Each whimsical television spot is filmed in a magical realism style which is Jeunet’s signature, with two-time Oscar-winner Janusz Kaminski overseeing the cinematography. The results are short vignettes filmed at Marriott International properties including The Ritz-Carlton, Kyoto, W Verbier, JW Marriott Nashville, The Westin Golf Resort & Spa Playa Conchal, Sheraton Grand Hotel, Dubai and the Courtyard by Marriott Sedona. The Marriott Bonvoy campaign would span 22 countries pulsing media throughout the year and will take advantage of major cultural events to further showcase the new travel program around the world. The campaign will include television advertising and digital video in the U.S., as well as in other global markets in Asia, Europe, North America and South America. The initial television spot would premiere in the US during the 91st Oscars and in another first, would be featured within an insulated commercial pod during the broadcast on ABC. The media was planned by Marriott One Media, a dedicated unit within Publicis Groupe.
Marriott is also bolstering its experiential marketing partners by entering into a multi-year agreement with Premier League powerhouse Manchester United Football Club. The marketing partnership brings together sales and marketing activities around the globe. Marriott Bonvoy branding will appear prominently on ground-level “digiboards” within Old Trafford stadium and will be visible during globally televised matches.