Chineme Okafor in Abuja
The electricity transmission capacity of the Alaoji transmission substation of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), has been upgraded to 750 megavolt amp (MVA) from 450MVA, making it the biggest of its kind on southern Nigeria, the TCN has said. According to a statement from the General Manager, Public Affairs of the TCN, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, the upgraded substation would now allow the TCN channel more electricity to the Enugu electricity distribution company (Disco) for onward distribution to customers under its distribution network.
Mbah, said the upgrade of the substation was in line with the federal government’s plan to increase power supply to Nigerians, adding that a brand new 300MVA – 330/132/33kV power transformer was installed at the Alaoji substation to raise its capacity to 750MVA. She equally noted that another brand new 150MVA – 330/132/33kV power transformer has been dispatched for installation at its Kumbotso substation in Kano, to replace one of the four 150MVA transformers that was taken out for repairs. “The brand new 300MVA power transformer, energised on February 12th, 2019 in Alaoji Transmission Substation, has increased the station’s installed capacity from 450MVA to 750MVA which makes it the biggest substation in the southern part of the country and has also made the station consistent with redundancy requirement of N-1,” Mbah explained. She added: “With this development, TCN has increased its capacity to supply Enugu distribution company for onward supply to particularly Abia North (Ohafia, Arochukwu, Item, Abriba); Imo State (Okigwe, Arondi-izuogu), parts of Ebonyi and Rivers State.”
Mbah, further stated that transmission projects under construction within the region included four number 132kV substations at Okigwe in Imo State; Mbalano, Ohafia and Arochukwu in Abia State, and that they will improve power supply to these places. “The newly energised 300MVA transformer will also enhance evacuation of power generated into the 132kV grid network from the Alaoji NIPP and Afam power stations. The installation of the transformer was carried out by Messrs Power Control with active support of TCN engineers in Aba sub-region,” she added. Furthermore, she noted that the new 150MVA – 330/132/33kV power transformer installed in Kumbtso substation arrived there on the February 15, 2019, from Apapa Port in Lagos, and its installation would commence immediately the transformer is placed on the plinth.
According to her: “The new transformer is an addition to the recently repaired 150MVA power transformer which got burnt five years ago in Kumbotso substation. It is noteworthy that it is the first time a badly damaged150MVA was repaired in the history of Nigeria power sector. “As soon as the installation of the new 150MVA transformer is complete, the capacity of Kumbotso will become 4X150MVA and will further improve bulk power supply for onward delivery to Dakata, Wudil and Dan Agundi in Kano; Dutse and Hadeja in Jigawa State; Azare in Bauchi State; Katsina, Kankia, and Daura in Katsina; and finally to Maradi and Gazawa in Niger Republic respectively.”
She reiterated the resolve of the TCN to consistently contribute its quota to stable power supply in Nigeria by upgrading and investing in the national grid through its Transmission Rehabilitation and Expansion Programme (TREP).