Melaye Defeats Adeyemi in Kogi West 10:59 Yekini Jimoh in Lokoja Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West senatorial district at the National Assembly is leading Senator Smart Adeyemi according to the result from INEC office in Lokoja. Out of seven local government councils, Melaye won six local government councils. Melaye is contesting under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while Senator Adeyemi is contesting under the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Both of them are from Ijumu local government council. While Senator Smart Adeyemi is from Iyara in Ijumu, Senator Dino Melaye is from Ayetoro-Gbede also in Ijumu local government council. In Kabba-Bunu LGA, Senator Smart Adeyemi of APC scored 8971 while Melaye of PDP scored 14756. In Kogi local government council, PDP scored 11024 while APC scored 15639; in Ijumu, PDP scored 11749 while APC 8517. In Lokoja local government, PDP scored 24576 while APC 18800. In Yagba West, PDP scored 8942 while APC scored 6799. Also, in Mopa, scored PDP 5112 while APC scored 3668. In Yagba East, PDP scored 8638 while APC 5077. Adeyemi scored a total votes of 67, 471 while Senator Melaye scored 84, 797.  Igbinedion’s Daughter Loses House of Resp Seat to APC 10:45 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Mr Dennis Idahosa, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has been declared winner of the Ovia Federal Constituency in Edo State. Idahosa, a former Commissioner in Edo, polled a total of 28,509 to defeat the incumbent Ms Omosede Igbinedion, daughter of Chief Gabriel Igbinedion who scored 23, 345 votes. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) returning officer, Prof. Victor Igbinedion of the University of Benin, announced the final result at Iguobazuwa, headquarters of Ovia South West Local Government Area. He said “Having polled the highest number of votes cast, Idahosa of the APC has certified all electoral conditions, and is returned elected as the winner of the Ovia Federal Constituency seat elections conducted on Saturday”. In his address after he was declared winner, Idahosa who dedicated the victory to God, noted that it was the “voice of the people against bad representation.” He further said that the people of the constituency had clearly shown, with their votes, that the mandate to liberate the federal constituency is sacrosanct. Idahosa stressed that never again would one single individual decideswho and what becomes what in the constituency. While promising to entrench good representation, he promised to remain magnanimous in victory. “It is in this light that I enjoin all the good people of Ovia, both those who supported me and those who worked against me, my opponents and the APC aspirants, who I contested the party’s ticket with, to work with me for the betterment of the constituency. “This election was not all about Dennis Idahosa, but the people, who have yearned for a better and effective representation this past years,” he stated. The APC candidate won 18 of the 23 wards in the constituency, while the PDP candidate won five. Further breakdown of the result showed that the APC candidate won in 9 of the 13 wards available in Ovia North East Local Government Area, and 9 in the 10 in Ovia South West Local Government. Similarly, his opponent, Omosede Igbinedion of the PDP, won four and one wards in Ovia North East and Ovia South West Local Government Areas respectively.  APC Wins Osun Central 9:51PM Yinka Kolawole Osogbo The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ajibola Bashiru, has been declared winner of Osun Central Senatorial election. Bashiru was declared winner by the Returning Officer, Titilayo Adelaje, a professor at Obafemi Awolowo University on Sunday night. The APC candidate had 132,821 votes against his arch rival, Ganiyu Olaoluwa of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, who polled 106,779 votes. Mr Bashiru served as the Comissoner for Regional Integration in the first term of former Governor Rauf Aregbesola and later served as Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the second tenure of the same government. See Osun Central Senatorial Election Results below:
Boluwaduro LG
APC – 5,428
PDP – 4,702 Ifedayo LG
APC – 4,524
PDP – 3,767 Ifelodun LG
APC – 15,637
PDP – 13,004 Ila LG
APC – 11,197
PDP – 8,766 Irepodun LG
APC – 10,474
PDP – 12,272 Orolu LG
APC – 8,883
PDP – 7,725 Olorunda LG
APC – 20,037
PDP – 15,393 Odo Otin LG
APC – 12,559
PDP – 11,614 Boripe LG
APC – 13, 439
PDP – 8, 183 Osogbo LG
APC – 30,643 PDP – 28,466
Total Votes for APC – 132,821
Total Votes for PDP – 106,779 Result of the National Assembly elections for Katsina North senatorial district and Daura/Sandamu/Mai Adua Federal Constituency have been announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer,  Prof. Ojonigu Friday. APC Wins Kwara South Senatorial Election 9:20PM By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Lola Ashiru, was on Sunday night declared the winner of the Kwara South Senatorial District election held on Saturday. The Returning Officer for the election, Prof. Sylvia Malom, while declaring the result at the Irepodun Local Government Secretariat in Omu-Aran, said Ashiru polled 89, 704 to emerge winner. Sen. Rafiu Ibrahim, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, who was Ashiru’s closest rival in the election, polled 45, 176 votes. Malomo said Ashiru having scored the highest number of votes in the election was declared winner and returned elected. PDP Wins Oredo Federal Constituency 9:13PM Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Omoregie Ogbeide Ihama of the PDP has been declared winner of Oredo Federal Constituency seat of Edo State.. He polled 32,895 votes to defeat the APC candidate, Hon. Tony Osaigbovo Iyoha, who scored 23,352 votes.‎ Announcing the results, the Returning Officer, Prof. Elizabeth Omotunde Ogbechukwu said “Ogbeide-Ihama, having met all requirements, is hereby declare him winner of the election”. Saraki Loses Senate Seat 9:00PM By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Senate President Bukola Saraki has lost Kwara Central Senatorial Seat to the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe. In the latest result announced by the INEC collation officer on Sunday night, Saraki polled 30,075 votes against Oloriegbe’s 51,531 votes in Ilorin West local government area, the last of the four local government results announced. The APC candidate defeated the Senate President in all the four local governments in Kwara Central senatorial district. In Ilorin South Local Government, Oloriegbe polled 26,331 votes while Saraki polled 13,031votes. In Asa local government area, APC scored 15,932 votes while PDP got 11,252. The election result for Ilorin East local government council declared by the INEC collation officer, Professor Mufutau Ijaya, showed that APC polled 30,014 votes while PDP got 14,654 votes. APC Wins Ikorodu Federal Constituency in Lagos 8:49PM The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) the winner of Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly Elections in Ikorodu Federal Constituency of Lagos State. Dr. Musa Obalola, the INEC Returning Officer for the Feb. 23 House of Representatives poll for Ikorodu Federal Constituency, declared the result on Sunday at INEC’s collation centre in Ikorodu at 6:22pm on Sunday. According to him, Mr Babajimi Benson of APC, who represents the constituency in the House of Representatives, is returned as the winner. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that, with the result, Benson has won for the second term. According to Obalola, the APC candidate polled 42,563 votes to beat his closest rival, Mrs Omotolani Popoola of the PDP, who got 19, 825 votes. He added that AD got 180 votes, ADC, 360 votes and CAP, 11, out of the 66, 875 total votes cast in the federal constituency election. In the same vein, Dr Prof. Abidemi Akindele, the INEC Collation Officer, who announced the result of the senatorial poll in the federal constituency, declared that APC candidate won with 42,770 votes against PDP’s candidate, who got 20,382 votes. He said that AD got 204 votes and DPP, 147 votes, out of 66,768 votes cast. Mr Bayo Osinowo is the APC Candidate, while Mrs Abiodun Oyefusi is the PDP Candidate for Lagos East Senatorial District, which Ikorodu Federal Constituency is part of. The Collation Officer for the presidential poll, Prof. Ilupeju Akanbi, announced that the APC defeated PDP by polling 40, 719 votes against PDP’s 21,252 in the president poll. Akanbi also announced that AAC scored 410 and PCP, 375 votes out of the 63, 658 total votes cast in the election. (NAN) Saraki Loses Another Local Govt to APC 8:45PM By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Kwara Central Senatorial Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Saturday’s National Assembly elections, Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe, has defeated Senate President Bukola Saraki, Peoples Democratic Party senatorial candidate,  in Ilorin South Local Government area of the state. Dr. Oloriegbe polled 26,331 votes while Dr. Saraki polled 13,031votes. The INEC collation officer of Ilorin South LGA, Professor Rauf Kamil, disclosed this while presenting the outcome of the polls in the local government  at the state headquarters of INEC in Ilorin on Sunday night. With the latest result, Saraki has lost three local government areas  to APC, out of the four local governments in his senatorial district, putting his bid to return to the senate in jeopardy. INEC had earlier announced the in Asa and Ilorin East local government areas. In Asa local government area, APC scored 15,932 votes while PDP got 11,252. The result announced by the Local Government Collation Officer, Professor Emmanuel Sanya, at the state headquarters of INEC, also showed that Accord Party scored 18 votes, AA 74, ACPN 25, ADC 33, ADP 55 ANRP 33 and ANP 20. The election result for Ilorin East local government council declared by the INEC collation officer, Professor Mufutau Ijaya, showed that APC polled 30,014 votes while PDP got 14,654 votes. PDP Wins in Four LGs in Enugu 7:30PM By Christopher Isiguzo and Gideon Arinze in Enugu The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has won in all the four councils so far declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Enugu. The Vice Chancellor of Nnamdi Azimiwe University, Awka and the State Collation Officer, Prof. Joseph Ahaneku, collated the results as they were declared by the Council Collation Officers. Enugu South LGA: PDP polled 25,631
APC 2350 Aninri LGA: PDP – 19,062.
APC- 1,462. Ezeagu LGA: PDP – 15,526.
APC – 3,103. Enugu North LGA: PDP – 24,921.
APC – 825. Ondo: Boroffice Emerges Third Term Senator 6:50PM James Sowole in Akure For the second time since the beginning of Fourth Republic, Ondo State Sunday produced a third term senator in the person of Prof. Ajayi Boroffice. The first person that was elected for a third term was Senator Gbenga Oguniya, who was in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly from 1999 to 2011 when he represented Ondo Central. Boroffice has been in the Senate since 2011 when he was elected on the platform of Labour Party (LP). He however defected to the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) before the end of his first term in office. The third term senator, who contested on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), defeated other contestants by wise merging. In the results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the senatorial collation centre, Owo, Boroffice scored 53,199 votes to defeat Dr Tunji Abayomi of the Action Alliance (AA), who scored 43,100 votes, while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr Segun Alonge, scored 34,490 votes. In Akoko North East/Akoko North West Federal Constituency, the APC candidate Olubunmi Tunji Ojo defeated the incumbent, Stephen Olemija, who left APC when he lost the primary to contest under the platform of AA. Ojo scored 20,988 votes to defeat AA and PDP candidates who scored 10,979 and 12,969 respectively. In the Akoko South West/Akoko South East Federal Constituency, Mr Ade Adeogun of APC scored 19,047 to beat AA and PDP candidates who scored 14,914 and 12,907 respectively. The results were announced at the respective collation centres by INEC. In the results announced by INEC for the Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency, Mr Ikengboju Gboluga of the PDP scored 31,042 votes to defeat Hon. Albert Akintoye who scored 19,875. Kaduna Dep Gov Loses in LG in Senatorial Poll 6:16PM John Shiklam in Kaduna The collation of the presidential and National Assembly elections which held Saturday in Kaduna is still ongoing in the 23 local government areas of the state. Only the senatorial result in Kaura Local Government Area in the Southern Kaduna senatorial zone was officially announced on Sunday. Announcing the senatorial result for the local government, the INEC Returning Officer, Luka K. Maude, said that the Kaduna Deputy Governor Barnabas Bala Bantex of the All Progressives Congress (APC) lost to the incumbent senator and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Danjuma La’ah. According to the result, the PDP scored 29,356, while the APC polled 9,071 votes. Both Bantex and La’ah are from the same Kaura Local Government Area. Results from the seven other local government areas that make up the southern senatorial zone were being awaited before a winner is finally declared. The result announced on Sunday by the INEC Returning Officer, Luka K. Maude, showed that the PDP scored 29,356, while the APC polled 9,071. Other results from the seven other councils that make up the senatorial zone were still being collated. They include Kachia, Kagarko,Zango, Jaba, Jama’a, Sanga and Kauru. Also in Kaduna Central and Kaduna North senatorial zones, results of the presidential and National Assembly elections were being collated in the various local governments. In Kaduna Central Senatorial zone, results of all the elections were still being collated as at 4:00pm when THISDAY visited the Kaduna North office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at Majajin Gari, Kaduna. Speaking in an interview, the Electoral Officer, Habiba Garba Abubakar, said the the collation will take some time to conclude because three election results were being collated. “We are doing three things at the same time. We are collating the results for the Senate, the President and House of Representatives. “For the president, every local government is doing the collation at this time. At the end of the day, we will take it to the state headquarters of INEC, then from there they will do the collation from all the local governments and take the results to Abuja,” she explained. APC Clears All Senate, Reps Seats in Ekiti (5:41PM)
Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates as winners of the three senatorial and six House of Representatives seats in Ekiti State in Saturday’s National Assembly elections. In the results declared by INEC, Prince Dayo Adeyeye of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was declared winner of the Ekiti South Senatorial District. A former House of Representatives member and All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central for the Saturday National Assembly elections, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, has won the senatorial seat in the state. Bamidele, who was in the lower chambers of the National Assembly between 2011 and 2015, scored a total of 94,279 to trounce the PDP candidate, Mr Obafemi Adewale, who polled a total of 48,707 votes. The INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Laide Lawal, announced the results in the early hours of Sunday in Ikere. While the winner scored 77,621 votes, the opposition PDP and Senate Minority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, polled a total of 53,741 votes. Apart from the APC and PDP, the other parties that participated in the election were Democratic Alliance (DA), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), NAC and others. Similarly, the INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Sunday Abayomi Fasina, declared the Senator Adetunmbi of the APC the winner of the Ekiti North Senatorial District poll. Adetunmbi polled 60,689 votes to defeat the incumbent Senator Duro Faseyi of the PDP who recorded 49,209 votes. However, the candidates of the APC in both Ekiti South constituency 1 and Ekiti North constituency II, Hon. Yemi Adaramodu and Olarewaju Ibrahim, were declared the winners with a wide margin of victory respectively. Adaramodu of the APC emerged with a total number of 41,864 as against the candidature of the PDP, Mr. Segun Adekola, who polled 24,707. The APC candidate in Ekiti North constituency II, Olarewaju Ibrahim, polled 29,388 votes against his PDP opponent, Mr. Olusola Omotoso, who garnered 23,684 votes. Hon. Sola Fatoba and Mrs Wumi Ogunlola, APC candidates for the House of Representatives seats in Ekiti Central Federal constituencies 1 and 2 respectively, also won in the contests. The candidate of APC in Ekiti North federal constituency 1, Mr Peter Owolabi defeated the incumbent, Kehinde Agboola of the PDP. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Sunday hailed the election results declared which favoured all the National Assembly candidates of his party. Fayemi spoke at the Government House Chapel, Ado-Ekiti, where he worshiped along with Prince Dayo Adeyeye (senator-elect for Ekiti Central District) and Hon. Sola Fatoba (member-elect, House of Representatives Ekiti Central 1) and Prof. Dupe Adelabu, a former Deputy Governor of the state. He, however, sympathised with families of victims of election violence as reported in some parts of the country, while urging Nigerians to always seek for peace at all time. The governor also urged winners in the election to be humble and focused on service delivery. He advised them to see their victory as a product of God’s grace and not as a result of their power or might. “We have every reason to thank God for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ekiti State. Two weeks ago, the congregation here raised prayer points concerning the peaceful conduct of the election in our state. And God indeed answered our prayers. “The elections held in a peaceful atmosphere in Ekiti. We pray for the repose of the lives lost during the election in some parts of the country and pray that peace will reign supreme in the country,” he said. APC Wins Two Federal Constituencies in Osun (5:33PM) Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared Mr Amobi Yunusa Akintola, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Iwo/Ayedire Olaoluwa federal constituency winner of Saturday’s National Assembly election. The returning officer, Prof Rufus Adesoji Adedoyin, from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife declared Amobi winner having polled the highest number votes. Amobi according to Prof Adedoyin, polled 29,229 votes as against the PDP candidate, Mr Mudasir Lukman, who came second with a total vote of 21,608. Adiat Olaposi of ADP came third. He polled 17,624. Also APC’s Fakeye emerged winner of Ila/Ifedayo/Boluwaduro Federal Constituency in the election. INEC returning officer, Prof Paul Ogunjiyagbe, returned Fakeye as winner having scored highest votes of 20,371 to defeat his opponent, Hon Clement Akanni, who polled 17,247 votes. Okrika Results Missing, Military, Thugs Allegedly Chase Materials at Collation Centres (5:14PM) Ernest Chinwo in Port Harcourt The results of elections in Okrika Local Government Area of Rivers State have been hijacked by unknown persons, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said. This is as the commission confirmed that its staff, Mrs. Mary Efeturi, who was allegedly held hostage by the Minister of Transportation Chibuike Amaechi, using the military at the Ikwerre Local Government Area Collation Centre, has returned to the commission’s headquarters in Port Harcourt but without the collated results. The Director of Voter Education and Publicity of INEC in Rivers State, Chief Edwin Enabor, told THISDAY on telephone that results from Okrika were no more expected at the commission as they were no more certain of the location of the materials and officials. “Technically speaking, Okrika has no results. The commission may have to hold fresh elections in that area,” he said. He also confirmed that Efeturi was back in the office and writing her report on her travails. “She is back in her office now and writing her report on her experience. She did not come back with the result as that was taken away by the military that detained her. The commission will make appropriate response after studying her report,” he said. THISDAY can confirm that as at 3pm only results from five local government areas have reached the commission. Reports from the local government areas indicate that thugs, sometimes aided by the military, were going round the collation centres, to wrest the materials from INEC officials. Indeed, an INEC official, who handled the results from Obio/Akpor Local Government Area, said she was molested by thugs who wanted to snatch the materials and results of the presidential elections from her. She said she was rescued by policemen who brought her and the materials to the commission’s headquarters with results of the presidential election. APC Wins Akoko-Edo Federal Constituency (4:54 PM) Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Comrade Peter Akpatason of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of Akoko-Edo Federal Constituency polls held Saturday. He scored a total of 27,097 votes to defeat his closest rival, Oladele Bankole-Balogun, of the PDP who scored 16,053 votes. Akoko-Edo Federal constituency is home to prominent personalities like Senator Domingo Obende, Chief of Staff to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Mr. Taiwo Akerele, Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Kabiru Adjoto, Elder Ayo Olowojoba and Hon. Segun Oseh, amongst others. See details of results of Akoko-Edo Federal Constituency below: APC                PDP 2.  2345         1782 3.  2073         1372 4.  2962         2041 5.  2144           1722 6.  1823            912 7.  2864          1460 8.  2741         1493 9.  6469         2212 10.  1951       1405 Total: APC           PDP 27,097      16,053 APC Wins in Kano, Yobe LGs (4:30pm) The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State has defeated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Saturday Presidential and National Assembly elections in Madobi Local Government Area of the state. Madobi is the local government area of Senator Rabi’u Kwankwaso, the Senator representing Kano Central Senatorial zone. Dr Sani Umar, the returning officer for the local government, made the announcement on Sunday at Madobi. He said that the APC presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, secured 26,110 to defeat the PDP presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar who got 13,113 votes. Similarly, Prof. Mansir Umar-Bindawa, the returning officer who announced the National Assembly election results, said the APC candidate for Kano Central senatorial candidate secured 22,731, while the PDP senatorial candidate got 15,524 votes in the local government. According to Umar-Bindawa, the APC House of Representatives candidate defeated his PDP counterpart with 22,100 votes as against 15,925 votes.
Similarly, INEC has declared the APC presidential candidate as winner of Tofa Local Government Area of Kano State. The INEC returning officer, Dr Mohammed Murtala, who announced the result, said Buhari scored 19,984 to defeat Atiku of the PDP who polled 7,732 votes.
Murtala also announced APC as winner of the Kano North Senatorial zone with 16,794 votes as against PDP’s 10,746 and PRP’s 397 votes.
The returning officer for the presidential election in Garin Malam Local Government Area, Prof. Dahiru Sani-Shuaibu, said APC scored 23,810 against PDP’s 4,861 votes.
Dr Umar Abbas, the returning officer for the Senate in Garin Malam Local Government, said APC’s senatorial candidate for Kano South Senatorial zone scored 18,412, while the PDP candidate scored 8,548 votes.
Abbas also declared APC House of Representatives’ candidate winner after polling 18,029 to defeat PDP’s candidate who scored 8,262 votes. In Yobe State, the APC scored 12,227 votes against PDP’s 325 votes in the presidential election in Gujba Local Government Area of the state. Dr Madu Gadaka, the Collation Officer of the local government, while presenting the election results on Sunday, said a total of 13,526 votes were cast, out of which APC garnered 12,227 and PDP scored 325, while 635 votes were rejected. Prof. Abubakar Gundiri, presidential collation officer in Yobe, asked agents of the parties if their records tally with the submission made by the local government collation officer. Dr Zaji Bunu, APC agent and Dr Abdu Bulama of PDP, both agreed with the figures submitted as true copy of the election results. (NAN) PDP Wins N’Assembly Poll in Awgu LGA of Enugu State (4:12 PM) The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won the National Assembly polls in Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State. Announcing the result in Awgu on Sunday, the INEC Returning Officer in the council, Prof. Emmanuel Eze, disclosed that the PDP polled 18,879 votes, while the All Progressives Congress (APC) got 2,710 for Enugu West senatorial seat. For the House of Representatives, Eze said the PDP polled 18,958 followed by the APC with 2,817 votes and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), 1,335 votes. The returning officer said that valid votes cast were 23,607 out of the total 24,442 registered voters with 840 void votes. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that the senatorial contest was between the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu of the PDP and Mrs Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, former Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Justice Reform for the APC. The PDP two-term lawmaker Toby Okechukwu is contesting with an ace broadcaster Obiora Ilo of the African Independent Television (AIT) for the APC for Awgu/Aninri/Oji River federal constituency. (NAN)  APC Wins 2 Senate, 5 Reps Seats  in Ekiti 2:45PM Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  has declared the All Progressives Congress(APC) as winner of two out of the three  senate seats and five out of the six House of Representatives seats in the Saturday’s National Assembly elections. In the results declared so far, Prince Dayo Adeyeye of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was declared winner of the Ekiti South Senatorial District. However, results of  Senatorial election in Ekiti Central has not been declared, where  Hon Opeyemi Bamidele of the APC slugged it out with his counterpart in the PDP, Mr Obafemi Adewale. Result of election in Ekiti South federal constituency II, involving Hon Femi Bamisile of the APC and the present occupant, Hon Akin Awodumila of the PDP, has not been officially declared by INEC. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Laide Lawal announced the results in the early hours of Sunday in Ikere. While the winner scored 77,621 votes, the opposition People’s Democratic Party and Senate Minority Leader,  Senator . Biodun Olujimi polled a total of 53,741 votes Apart from the APC and PDP, the other parties that participated in the election were Democratic Alliance (DA), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), People’s Party of Nigeria (PPN), NAC and others Similarly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Sunday Abayomi Fasina declared the Sen. Adetunmbi of the APC the winner of the Ekiti North Senatorial District
poll. Sen. Adetunmbi polled 60,689 votes to defeat the incumbent Senator Duro Faseyi of the PDP who recorded 49,209 votes. However, the candidates of the All Progressives in both Ekiti South constituency 1 and Ekiti North constituency II, Hon. Yemi Adaramodu and Olarewaju Ibrahim were declared the winner with a wide margin of victory respectively. Hon. Yemi Adaramodu of the APC emerged with a total number of 41864 as against the candidature of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Mr. Segun Adekola who polled 24, 707. While All Progressives Congress candidates in  Ekiti North constituency II, Olarewaju Ibrahim polled 29,388 votes against the PDP flagbearer , Arch Olusola Omotoso who garnered 23,684 votes. Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Sunday , hails election results declared , which favoured all the National Assembly candidates of the party. Governor Fayemi spoke at the Government House Chapel, Ado-Ekiti , where he worshiped along with Prince Dayo Adeyeye (Senator-Elect for Ekiti Central District) and  Hon Sola Fatoba (member –Elect, House of Representatives Ekiti Central 1) and Prof Dupe Adelabu, a former Deputy Governor of the state. He, however , sympathised with families of victims of election violence as reported in some parts of the country, while urging Nigerians to always seek for peace at all time, Governor Fayemi also urged winners in the election to be humble and focus on service delivery. He advised them to see their victory as a product of God’s grace and not as a result of their power or might. “We have every reason to thank God for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ekiti State. Two weeks ago, the congregation here raised prayer points concerning the peaceful conduct of the election in our state. And God indeed answered our prayers. “The elections held in a peaceful atmosphere in Ekiti. We pray for the repose of the lives lost during the election in some parts of the country and pray that peace will reign supreme in the country”.