Former Super Eagles Captain, Joseph Yobo Wednesday tipped in-form CD Leganes FC player, Kenneth Omeruo, to step into his shoes as a regular centre-back. The retired footballer made the assertion in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at his unveiling as brand ambassador of the inaugural Trophy five-a-side “Join the Field of Honour” competition. Yobo was capped 101 for Nigeria. He played in three FIFA World Cups and Six Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) for the Super Eagles after making his debut against Zambia in 2002. Yobo captained the senior national team in 2010 after the retirement of Nwankwo Kanu and went on to win the AFCON as a captain in 2013 with a 1-0 win over Burkina Faso in South Africa. The 38-year-old also scored seven goals during his international career after his first goal against Madagascar in the 2012 AFCON qualifiers on Sept. 4. Looking back at his successful years in the Nigeria’s green white green jersey and a possible successor to the shoes he left behind, Yobo said that Omeruo was capable of taking over from him. “I am happy for Omeruo because he played along with me. I am happy that he is fulfilling his potential because he is a good defender. “Omeruo is someone I have hoped to take over from me and I am happy that he is in Spain and doing fantastically well. “I am also happy other defenders such as Leon Balogun and other players are performing as well. It is always good that we have our defenders fit and at the moment doing well. “Super Eagles as a team is presently doing well now and only need the support of all Nigerians to do better at the AFCON 2019,” stressed the former Nigerian captain. Yobo cut his teeth at Standard Liege of Belgium before moving to Everton FC. He left Everton to join Norwich FC before leaving England for Turkey to star for Fenerbache FC. He asked handlers of the senior national team to give fringe players the chance to show what they have to offer now that pressure is not on Super Eagles in the dead-rubber last qualifying game with Seychelles. “The Super Eagles have now qualified for AFCON, so the game against Seychelles is not so important. It is important to give the upcoming and fringe players a chance. “The Super Eagles can as well win the AFCON. It is possible because I was fascinated about the way they qualified for the tournament with a game in hand. “We should note that qualifiers are always tough for Nigeria but it happened because the team build on the success from the World Cup. “The future is bright for the team and I believe in them. In football you go into the tournament with the mind of winning but the team should take it one game after other,” Yobo concluded.