Keystone Bank Limited, Nigeria’s most innovative banking services provider, has introduced ‘Cheque Deposit’ feature in its mobile banking application, the new ‘Keystone Mobile App’. The feature which is another first from the Bank and in the Nigerian banking sector, enables customers to pay cheques into their accounts at their convenience through their mobile phones even with zero data. Speaking on the development, the Group Managing Director/CEO of Keystone Bank Limited, Dr. Obeahon Ohiwerei, said the new feat is in demonstration of the bank’s commitment to continuously deliver superior and innovative banking solutions to its customers. “The Keystone Bank brand is built on meeting and exceeding customer expectations by providing simple and convenient banking services at all times. “With the new cheque deposit feature, you have one less reason to make that trip to the bank. “In our fast-paced and evolving digital world, service literally has to be at the speed of thought; the rules of engagement are changing so fast that customer expectations are as diverse as our lifestyles and choices. “It is no longer a question of stepping out to the bank but about the convergence of innovative services, digital technology and Omni-channel platforms coming to us at breakneck speed. “Mobile Banking for one isn’t entirely new in the industry, but there is no end to innovation in delivering customer convenience; at Keystone Bank that’s what sets us apart and that shall continue to be our strength. “We are determined to be your preferred bank; dependable, responsive and always within reach,” Ohiwerei stated. Other notable features of the mobile App are, zero data banking (which enables customers enjoy banking services on their mobile phones without data), easy account opening, convenient self- booking and liquidation of fixed deposits, an expanded list of bills-payment options and easy activation of standing instructions & recurrent future payments. Others include, a “Switch Card ON/OFF option” which allows users to disable their cards temporarily if missing & re-enable at the click of a button, the “Hide Balance Feature” which is an additional safeguard against third-party viewing and the “Meet Your Relationship Manager Option” which allows users to call, text and email their account officers right within the app. The lender prides itself as the first in the sector to introduce the Zero Data Banking feature and a Chat-bot feature called OXYGEN which enables banking on Telegram and Facebook. Keystone Bank is a technology and service-driven commercial bank offering convenient and reliable solutions to its customers.