The Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, yesterday directed top civil servants to meet him at the state school of special needs for their budget review meeting in order for them to appreciate the need to allocate resources in manners that directly benefit the downtrodden in the society. In what was a first in the state history, AbdulRazaq said he purposely scheduled the meeting for the school to let the top bureaucrats and government functionaries appreciate the need to allocate resources mannerly to benefit the downtrodden in the state. The governor had earlier visited the school a few weeks ago to listen to the teachers and inspect the facilities there, apologising to the children and promising to quickly attend to their needs. “Work has started in line with our Iseya mantra. I’m sorry to drag you here; it is symbolic. This is necessary for you to understand that there are other people who have needs that we should meet. I want (the budget) to be more inclusive going forward,” the governor told the civil servants at the midyear budget review session in Apata Yakuba, a suburb of Ilorin, the state capital. The meeting was attended by the Head of Service, Mrs. Susan Modupe Oluwole; chairman of the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KW-IRS), permanent secretaries; directors and heads of various government departments and parastatals. AbdulRazaq told the bureaucrats that bringing them to the school was to ensure that budgets were made to reflect the condition of the people, and not a show of executive powers. According to him, “I’ve been here before and I know they have needs. The pupils here don’t have access to very basic needs. They don’t have light (electricity). They can’t read. This is a trend across the state. Our schools are in bad state. This is why we emphasised the need to get basic things running first. “The budget should be realistic. We should bring things back to standard. So, bringing you here is to encourage you to feel the situation here. It is not impunity. It is for us to understand the terrible state of things. It is to make you appreciate the situation here. So I want you to appreciate the environment in which you work. “We want to put basic things in place first before we move into big budget (projects). We will eventually embark on those (big) things but we want to put basic things in place first.” He urged the top civil servants in the state and wealthy members of the society to help the needy such as the special needs children and other disadvantaged members of the society. The meeting was the second time the governor would pull top civil servants to the hinterland to have a feel of the condition of the people. In June, the governor summoned permanent secretaries and other officials to Patigi in Kwara North, following his visit to some schools and hospitals which conditions he said were unacceptable to him.