 The federal government yesterday unfolded plans to deploy the military in some of the nation’s highways in a bid to check the rising waves of kidnappings and killings of travellers.
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who stated the plan in Akure, the Ondo State capital, during a condolence visit to  Afenifere Leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, said the deployment of the military would complement that of the police, which had beefed up security on major highways through stop-and-search and use of helicopters to track kidnappers, many of who hide in forests.  Bandits Kill 10, Injure Army Officer, Six Others Meanwhile, the police authorities in Katsina State have confirmed the killing of 10 persons by bandits, who invaded Kirtawa village in Safana Local Government Area of the state.
The command’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Gambo Isah, a Superintendent of Police, said that the bandits launched the fresh attack on Saturday, during which they injured one army officer and a civil defence officer, five civilians and set five vehicles ablaze.
Isah said in a statement given to journalists in Katsina, that the armed hoodlums, who numbered over 300 and rode on motorcycles, invaded the village and rustled numerous animals belonging to the residents.
He said: “The DPO of Safana initially led teams of Operations “Puff Adder” and Sharan-Daji to the scene and engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel. In the process, the hoodlums shot the tyres of the police Armoured Personnel Vehicle and injured one army officer and a civil defence personnel.  Senate Expresses Worry over Killings Also, at the weekend, the Senate expressed concern over the spate of incessant attacks and killings by suspected herdsmen and assassins in recent times.
Senate’s spokesman, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, in a statement in which he condemned last Friday’s killing of Olakunrin, said the Senate was disturbed by the rate of incessant attacks and wanton killing of citizens “either by the herdsmen, hired assassins, kidnappers and or other men of the underworld that are having field days in wreaking havoc on the lives and property of innocent citizens in the country.”
According to him, the Senate is conscious of the fact that security to life is a fundamental right of every citizen, adding that Nigerians, therefore, deserve to have their right to live protected by the government at all times.
While condoling with the Fasoranti, Adeyeye described the gruesome killing of Olakunrin as sad, devastating and a worrisome development.
In condemning the heinous and barbaric act, he urged Adamu to begin massive manhunt for the killers and ensure that they are apprehended.
“Also, measures to prevent future occurrence of such incidence should be put in place by improving the security architecture on the Nigerian highways, social gatherings and worship centres across the country,” Adeyeye said. Tinubu Cautions against Ethnic Stigmatisation And amidst the swirling allegation that Olakunrin was killed by suspected herdsmen, which some people identified as Fulani, Tinubu yesterday warned against stigmatising any ethnic group or tribe in the country.
Tinubu, accompanied by the former Interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande, and other party chieftains during a condolence visit to Fasoranti, cautioned against allowing the incident to divide the Yoruba.
He said: “I am extremely concerned about security; I don’t want a stigma. I can go through history of kidnapping in Nigeria and we know how and where it all started. There are a lot of copycats.
“How many years ago, have we faced insecurity in the country? There are cases of kidnapping. Is Evans too, who was arrested and made disclosures, also a herdsman? I don’t want to be political, but I will ask: Where are the cows?
“The incident that affected one member of our family, Mrs. Olakunrin, is seriously sad and unacceptable but nobody can return her alive. She has answered the call of her creator.
“We must not use this incident to divide ourselves but we must use it as a cure to the security problem.”