 As the agitation for the implementation of reports of the 2014 National Conference and the Governor Nasir El-Rufai Committee rages, the main Northern socio-cultural groups in Nigeria, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has again expressed its objection to any attempt to retable the recommendations.
But their counterparts in South, Afenifere from the South-west, and Ohanaeze Ndigbo from the South-east, have disagreed, insisting that the way out of the several challenges facing the country is to look at the reports that had recommended the review of the structure of the federation.  Afenifere Wants 2014 Confab Implemented
However, Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, differed from the ACF and backed last week’s call by former President Goodluck Jonathan that President Muhammadu Buhari should implement the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference.
Afenifere said the federal government should re-visit and implement the 2014 conference recommendations.
But it rejected the el-Rufai committee report, which Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, said would not achieve the objectives of the 2014 national conference.
He said: “the 2014 national conference report makes more sense than el-Rufai’s committee. El-Rufai’s committee is just a party committee; national conference 2014 was a conference of Nigerians, 493 delegates across the whole country, sat for three months. What is in el-Rufai committee?
“If they are serious, we have enough material in the 2014 national conference to remake the country. So, talking about el-Rufai’s committee now is a waste of time. And the country is disappearing on daily basis. What is left of the country now only God can salvage it. Any minute that is wasted now is a loss of time.
“A time is coming when even if they carry restructuring, people would say ‘no, we don’t want again.’ If they don’t take the opportunity and do it when there is still a chance.” We Stand by Awka Declaration Says Ohanaeze On its part, Ohanaeze said it was for restructuring and it stood by its Awka declaration on the issue.
President General of the organisation, Chief Nnia Nwodo, told THISDAY at the weekend that the group remained totally committed to the resolutions it reached during the all Igbo conference in Awka, Anambra State, on May 21, 2018.
“I am under obligation to continue to champion the interest of Ndigbo who gave me their mandate to lead them. It was a gathering of Ndigbo. Our governors, legislators both at state and national level, captains of industry, the academia, traditional and religious leaders, students, men and women from every part of Igbo land were present. I stand by that decision as far as this issue of restructuring is concerned,” he said.
At the conference tagged “Awka Declaration,” Ohanaeze Ndigbo, led Igbo political, religious and traditional leaders in the South-east to adopt an Igbo position on the restructuring of the country.