The African Action Congress (AAC) has declared August 5, 2019, the commencement date of revolution protests tagged ‘Days of Rage’ across the country to demand for a better Nigeria. The presidential candidate of the party in the 2019 general election, Omoyele Sowore disclosed this at the weekend in Abuja at the end of the National Executive Committee  (NEC) meeting of the AAC. Sowore said that the protest would be sustained until the country is put on the right path of honour where justice will prevail. He stated that the action of the government compelled them to take the decision, noting that there was no level-playing field in the last elections. “Election is a place we would have carried out a revolution of the ballot box but they stole the ballot box. They hijacked materials that was meant for free and fair election  and as a result they did not organise any election that was credible enough for people to have faith in the ballot box,” he said. Sowore who is also a human rights activist, maintained that for the country to have a free and fair elections in the future, there must be a showdown and people must define who should be their electoral officers. He said, “The revolution has therefore become inevitable. We didn’t choose to go for revolution they choose it by ensuring that there was no level-playing field in the last election. “As you know they did it in Sudan and it was started by some females. They were making fun of them but they did not stop until doctors joined them, the labour union joined them and what started as 5 people became 5,000 and 500,000 and became 5,000,000 and the regime fell. “So, don’t let anybody deceive you that in asking for a better government or country you are committing any illegality . The biggest illegality being committed in Nigeria as of today is the rigging of election in 2019. “The moment you don’t allow people to express their God-given rights to choose their leaders, you are committing an illegality and inviting resistance.” He said that the proposed revolution was inevitable,  adding that the group has mobilised people in Lagos and many parts of the country to create places of community resistance. Sowore said the party has succeeded in creating awareness for the people to speak up and be resistant to all form of poor services from the government. He added that the consciousness being raised among Nigerians was not to promote or encourage violence but to create the culture of resistance in them.