The people of Agbada Nenwe in Aninri Local Government Area of Enugu State; members of the Hausa/Fulani community and Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in the South East zone, have denied the video trending on social media over the purported expulsion of some herders and their cattle out of the community. It would be recalled that the Enugu State Command of the Nigeria Police had in the wake of the news report on social media denied that no such incident occurred, explaining that after a preliminary investigation, it was revealed that what transpired was “only the movement of cattle and herders from Cross River State through Uburu in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State and a neighboring town for grazing”. Speaking when Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State led the State Commissioner of Police; the Director of Department of State Services (DSS); the Garrison Commander, 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu; the Speaker, Enugu State House of Assembly; the state Commandant of Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps, and other relevant stakeholders, to Agbada Nenwe yesterday, on a fact-finding visit, the traditional ruler of the community, Igwe Francis Imo, said the video is untrue, stressing that “nobody drove the Fulani community out of Agbada Nenwe”. Also speaking, the Chairman of Aninri LGA, Hon. Ezekiel Chukwu, said that immediately he got wind of the rumour he “rushed to the community with the security agencies in the council and could not establish the occurrence of such incident”. On their part, the leaders of the Northern community and Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, South East zone, who appreciated Ugwuanyi for his commitment to peaceful co-existence of all Nigerians resident in Enugu State, pointed out that they have not come across any herder or Fulani man who has complained that he was molested or chased out from the community. In his presentation, the Sarkin Hausawa, Enugu State, Alhaji Abukakar Yusuf Sambo, said: “We have been enjoying peaceful co-existence in Enugu State and we are here to say that mischief makers will not succeed”. In his submission, the Chairman of MACBAN, South East Zone, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki, cautioned against “the harm our individual or group unruly act can cause the wider society beyond our immediate environment”. According to him, “it is my sincere plea that while we genuinely seek our individual or group interests, we encourage collective good of all and healthy cohesion for virile nationhood. “I wish to thank the government of Enugu State and indeed the governments of the South East states for their role in nurturing cordiality amongst residents of their states and other persons whose businesses are of economic value”. Responding, Ugwuanyi, who stated that the delegation has found out from the presentations by the leaders of Agbada Nenwe and Northern communities, MACBAN, and Nigeria Police, that the said video is not true, appealed to those who are peddling false news about Enugu State to note that Enugu is a very peaceful state. The governor maintained that “Enugu State, as we declared during our first ever Oganiru Investment Summit, is open for business and a home for all”, and reassured both the indigenes and non-indigenes of the community that the state is secure and remains one of the most peaceful state in the country. “As a government, we assure and reassure both the indigenes and non-indigenes of this community that Enugu State is secure and remains one of the most peaceful states in the country”, he said.