Goddy Egene The Nigerian Stock Exchange has launched the Investor Relations (IR) Data Pack, an innovative and dynamic webpage integrated with key market data, corporate news and disclosures, for corporate issuers. According to the exchange, the IR Data Pack was designed to reduce burden on issuers, by providing them with an intuitive investor relations webpage which can easily be integrated to their existing corporate websites. It explained that, the pack, which is hosted in the cloud, features enhanced interactive functionalities with 99.5 percent uptime. Commenting on the launch of IR Data Pack, Head, Trading Business, NSE, Mr. Jude Chiemeka, said: “NSE IR Data Pack is a necessary tool required by issuers to improve their engagement with investors. We came up with the IR programme to provide value-added service to our issuers and make their daily market statistics available to investors in a real-time. It is a tool that will enhance their communication and outreach strategy to investors, analysts and other stakeholders”. “As an Exchange, we remain committed to bridging the information gap between the Exchange and market participants, knowing that the stock market thrives on information. The delivery of the IR Data Pack and associated services is an essential building block in The Exchange’s strategy as it seeks to improve market participation and transparency, and facilitate informed investment decision making”, Mr. Chiemeka added. On his part, Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said: “We are delighted to provide a solution that enables adequate exposure to capital market information. Issuers can now drive a more robust market interaction on their corporate websites and potentially position themselves to attract more investors. NSE is committed to building a market that thrives on innovation, and we will continuously adopt new technologies in providing customer-centric solutions to make financial services more inclusive whilst providing a superior customer experience in accessing and using capital. Through the use of cutting-edge technologies, we are decentralising business collaborations, which will allow global scale and transformation of not just The exchange’s business but that of NSE listed companies, in line with global digitalisation trends.” Meanwhile, trading at the stock market remained bearish as the NSE All-Share Index fell 0.25 per cent to close at 27,990.61 following sell pressures in MTN Nigerian Communications Plc, Dangote Cement Plc and FBN Holdings Plc. Similarly, market capitalisation shed N47.8 billion to close at N13.6 trillion.As a result, the year-to-date decline has worsened to 10.9 per cent.