Emma Okonji iSON Xperiences, formerly iSON BPO Limited, a leading customer experience management company, with strong focus in sub-Saharan Africa, has emerged the “Pan African Contact Centre Management Provider of the Year” at the 14th annual Titans of Tech Awards. The 2019 Titans of Tech Awards took place recently in Lagos. The award was granted in recognition for the company’s consistent excellence in providing world class Call Centres for national development. The event was preceded by a Leadership Roundtable that aimed to provide plans and policies that give insight into the challenges, opportunities and available solutions to support Nigeria’s emerging digital economy. Commenting on the awards, Global CEO, Mr. Pravin Kumar said, “While we are happy to receive this award, we are even more delighted to have our efforts in providing a distinguished customer service experience recognised. Since we started our journey in Africa, we have seen that investing in Nigeria has truly paid off in growing the ICT industry here. As we continue to help in growing the tech industry, we cannot help but feel even more encouraged to satisfy our clients through our superior services. Kumar also expressed his gratitude to the clients, stakeholders, staff and organisers of the event. He said, “Without our incredibly talented staff, our loyal clients and stakeholders we simply would not be where we are today. It is through their consistent drive to provide the best quality IT solutions that we are able to stand here today. I would like to thank Tech Africa for organizing such an important occasion. This award confirms that the efforts iSON is investing into fostering a stronger tech and IT ecosystem in Nigeria is truly worthwhile, milestones like these ones are truly worth appreciating.” According to him, “I will also like to say thank you on behalf of the entirety of iSON Xperiences for this gracious honor. It is satisfactory to earning a genuine reputation as a specialist in proactive customer engagement and experience as a leading contact Centre Management Provider of choice in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa”.