By Chuks Okocha in Abuja The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Friday slammed a one month suspension on the Ndidi Elumelu led Minority leadership of the House of Representatives, accusing them of indiscipline and disobedience to party directive. Addressing newsmen after its NWC  meeting, the National Publicity Secretary of PDP,  Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the party  met Friday and reviewed issues surrounding the Minority Leadership of the House of Representatives. According to the spokesperson of PDP,  “The Party noted the roles played by the under-listed members which resulted in the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, reading another list for Minority Leadership of the House other than the list submitted to him by our party, the PDP. “The members are; Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, Hon. Wole Oke, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu, Hon. Anayo Edwin, Hon. Gideon Gwadi, Hon. Toby Okechukwu and Hon. Adekoya Abdul-Majid. “After preliminary examination by the NWC, it was evident that the roles played by the above mentioned members, bordered on indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of party directives contrary to Section 58 (1)(b)(c)(f)(h) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017), which provides that: “Subject to the provision of this Constitution, the Party shall have power to discipline any member who says or does anything likely to bring the party into disrepute, hatred or contempt; disobeys or neglects to carry out lawful directives of the party or any organ or officer of the party; engages in anti-party activities; or engages in any conduct likely to cause disaffection among members of the party or is likely to disrupt the peaceful, lawful and efficient conduct of the business of the party”. Ologbondiyan said,  “Consequent upon this, the above mentioned members of our party are hereby suspended for one month and this matter is hereby referred to the National Disciplinary Committee of our party, in keeping with Section 57(3) of the PDP Constitution”.