…inspects ongoing construction of St. Saviour Road The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said the ongoing renovation work on blocks C and D of the Secretariat Complex along Sapele Road in Benin City, will transform the complex into a world-class centre and serve as a hub for civil servants. Obaseki disclosed this during the inspection of ongoing work on Blocks C and D at the Secretariat Complex in Benin City. He said the work at the secretariat building was informed by his desire to transform the Civil Service in the state, noting, “This secretariat complex was designed 40 years ago by the Samuel Ogbemudia administration as blocks C and D. It was later abandoned. But as part of our transformation programme for the Civil Service, we decided to rebuild the entire Civil Service buildings. “We have completed Block C and finalising work on Block D. We will make the secretariat complex world-class with a civic center, supermarket, and a crèche for nursing mothers. It will be furnished with state-of-the-art facilities to create a very conducive environment for Edo State civil servants,” Obaseki said. At the Treasury House, Obaseki said: “We have almost completed the Treasury House designed by Samuel Ogbemudia administration. We redesigned the building and it is almost completed. The Accountant General and the Commissioner for Finance will have their offices located here.” Obaseki noted that his administration was working hard to ensure that civil servants who are the engine room of his administration take pride in where they work. He assured civil servants that the 5MW electricity project to provide embedded power to the complex will be ready between September and October. The governor also inspected ongoing construction of St. Saviour Road, noting that he embarked on the visit after receiving complaints from residents in the area. “I got complaints from residents in the area and decided to see things for myself. The road is about 15km stretch with about five low points along the stretch. Houses are flooded when it rains. I am here to understand the design and how to proffer solutions and channel the flood water so that it doesn’t affect residents in the area. We are going to use about 15,000 square meters of space as a retaining point for the flood water in the area.”