By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti A lecturer at the Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado Ekiti, Dr. Olaleye Aduwo, who was alleged to have been involved in “sex for mark” scandal, on Monday denied ever coercing the said student for sexual exploit. The lecturer, in a 29-second video that went viral about a month ago, was accused of attempting to have sex with one of his students for mark. During the process, the lecturer was tortured, harassed and dehumanized by people brought by the lady. Since the incident happened, the lecturer has kept mute on the issue, except the defence he presented before the panel set up by EKSU to investigate the issue, which was gleaned through some sources privy to the closed door interaction. Speaking with a section of journalists in Ado Ekiti on Monday, Aduwo, in an emotion laden voice, expressed regret over the issue, which he claimed was a deliberate attempt to smear his hard earned integrity and reputation. He said: “Though the incident came to me as a surprise and it is still under investigation. I urge members of the public to disregard any misleading information circulated on social media as such was not true. “The lady in question was more or less like a daughter and a friend to my own daughter hence, I couldn’t have asked her for sex. “On the said day, some unknown hoodlums suspected to be cultists, numbering about 15 suddenly invaded my house along Ikere Road, Ado Ekiti through the connivance of the lady in question, to molest me. “I had just shared dinner with my friend, Mr Allen Akinmudiro, co-inhabitant in the same flat when the incident happened around 10pm in my living room. “The female student in question who is a friend to my own daughter arrived the house and took part in the dinner with me and Mr Akinmudiro, but neither did I know that she had an ulterior motive. “After the meal, the lady signaled to the hoodlums who wasted no time as they stormed my house, rough-handled me, stripped me naked right in my sitting room with my friend Allen and subjected me to serious tortures, using electric device, and they beat me with harmful objects.” He claimed that the hoodlums came into the house with guns and other dangerous weapons, saying he had no choice than to obey their instructions so as not to endanger his life. Aduwo noted that all efforts by the landlord and neighbours to rescue him failed as they were threatened with guns and had to run for their lives. He maintained that the issue was a clear assault and not sex for mark as widely circulated.