The Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife, Nigeria, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, will on Saturday, May 18, 2019 deliver the 11th Foundation Anniversary Lecture of Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State. Entitled “University Education in Nigeria: Matters Arising,” a highly topical and salient issue in today’s educational discourse in the nation, the lecture is poised to bring keen insight to the state of affairs in the delivery of Tertiary Education in Nigeria today. An Indigene of Owo Kingdom, Prof. Ogunbodede, besides his exalted office as the   head of one of Africa’s foremost Universities, is an accomplished academic. He has published over 100 full-length peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, two books, contributed three chapters to books, three monographs, one technical report, one Inaugural Lecture and 48 Conference abstracts. Prof. Ogunbodede has attended over 140 scientific conferences and personally presented papers at over 40 of such conferences. He has also led many outstanding Research projects within and outside OAU. The Entire Academic Community, within and beyond Achievers University have expressed keen anticipation of the lecture at Achievers University on Saturday 18 May 2019. Representatives from Public and Private Universities within and outside Nigeria are expected at this auspicious occasion Achievers University, which started operations 11 years ago with just two colleges – College of Social and Management Sciences, and College of Natural and Applied Sciences, now runs various programmes in four Colleges including College of Engineering and Technology and College of Law. So far, the institution has admitted students consecutively for 11 academic sessions and turned out eight sets of graduates, well grounded in their specific academic or professional disciplines and entrepreneurial studies. who are making exemplary contributions to grow Nigeria’s economy. With undergraduate programmes in four Colleges, a School of Postgraduate Studies, and a robust degree awarding part-time programme AU-FAP, the University boasts of about 50 erudite academic staff including 13 professors, three Readers, and 16 Senior Lecturers among others. Established with the vision to be the best university in Africa and indeed among the best in the world, Achievers University, Owo aims to produce a total person, morally sound, properly educated and entrepreneurially oriented, who would be useful to himself and the society.