By Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State House of Assembly on Wednesday passed the bill for the creation of four Emirate councils in the state. The bill will seeks the creation of four more 1st class emirs in the state, which include Rano, Karaye, Bichi and Gaya emirates. It is believed that the law is aimed at whittling down the influence of Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, who was reported to be opposed to the reelection of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje
The Kano Assembly on Monday embarked on its earlier plans to amend the emirate law following a petition filed before the house by Ibrahim Salisu Chambers. The petitioner demanded for the upgrading of some traditional rulers to the status of 1st class emirs. Ibrahim chambers in the petition seeks the creation of the four additional 1st class emirate councils in Karaye, Bichi, Rano and Gaya. According to the petition, the establishment of the above emirate councils will bring more advantages for the development in the state. The assembly committee set up to look into the issue of reviewing the law presented its report before the legislators on Tuesday. The Majority leader, Mr Baffa Danagundi, while reading the joint committees report on the floor of the Assembly on Tuesday, said the report also recommended the review of the law. According to him, the decision followed wide consultations with stakeholders, adding that the feedback the committee received from the public, massively supported the upgrade of those emirate councils. He therefore said with the response received, it clearly showed that the need to upgrade the traditional rulers was necessary. According to Danagundi, the law if signed by the state Gov. Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, the emirate council would have their own kingmakers except Bichi. He explained that the Bichi emirate council would have its kingmakers from the old emirate council, Gidan Dabo, in particular. According to Danagundi, the creation of the new 1st class emirs would bring more job opportunities, boost economy and ensure security in the state.
The bill once assented to will become law.