Tottenham striker Harry Kane is “hopeful” of being fit for the Champions League final against Liverpool in Madrid on 1 June. Kane, who has not played since 9 April when he suffered an ankle injury, saw his side fight back from 3-0 down on aggregate against Ajax to draw 3-3 and go through to the final on away goals. “Rehab is going well,” said Kane. “I started straight line running this week and I have to start training even harder to prove myself to the gaffer.” Ajax won the first leg 1-0 in London and looked to be heading to the final when goals from Matthijs de Ligt and Hakim Ziyech gave the Dutch side a 3-0 overall lead. However, a second-half hat-trick from Lucas Moura, including a 96th-minute winner, took Tottenham into their first Champions League final. Kane, who was injured during the first leg of the quarter-final tie against Manchester City, added: “I’m a fan first and foremost and I know how much it means to the club. “It was a disappointing first half and we let them play. I went into the dressing room at half-time and we knew it [the performance] wasn’t good enough. We said we had 45 minutes to give everything. “The lads dug deep and showed passion and that is all you can ask for. We had to wait to get the third in the last minute and we found a way. That’s what football is about and we have the final to come.” Meanwhile, Tottenham’s Christian Eriksen has canvass for the erection of a “deserves a statue” for Lucas Moura after his hat-trick took Spurs into an all-English UEFA Champions League final on Wednesday night. Ajax led 3-0 on aggregate – but Moura’s goals, including a 96th-minute winner, took Tottenham through on away goals to face Liverpool on 1 June. Moura himself called it “the best moment of my career”. Eriksen said: “It was a ridiculous game; we were really far down, we tried to fight back, we were just lucky.” The Danish playmaker added: “We had to fight. We are relieved. “Today it was non-tactical, more of a fight and heart performance, heart and Lucas Moura – he’s how we won the game. “He deserves it, it has been a rollercoaster of a season, for him to get us in the final, I hope he gets a statue in England after this, we are blown away.