By Eromosele Abiodun Stakeholders in Nigeria’s maritime industry have commended APM Terminals for maintaining an excellent safety record in its operation at the Lagos Port Complex, Apapa. The commendation was given at the commemoration of the 2019 Global Safety Day with the theme ‘Safety Differently – Learning from the way we work’. The stakeholders, who include representatives of the truckers’ union, shipping lines and licensed Customs agents, noted that APM Terminals has recorded zero fatality in its operation in more than four years. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director of APM Terminals Apapa, Mr. Martin Jacob, appreciated the employees of the company for living up to their safety responsibilities and upholding their commitment to safety as their license to operate. He also commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for its commitment to a safe port environment especially at APM Terminals Apapa, with the recent acquisition of modern of fire fighting equipment made available for safety and fire drills, which has contributed to improving safety records of APM Terminals Apapa. Jacob said this year’s Global Safety Day theme was about continuous listening to and learning from the workforce when it comes to safety to contribute to safe and successful work outcomes.
He said APM Terminals Apapa’s continuous effort at improving safety at the workplace is yielding the desired results, stating that the company is committed to ensuring not just the safety of its assets but the safety of its employees, customers, contractors and visitors at the facility daily. The Chairman, Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Chief Remi Ogungbemi, also commended APM Terminals for maintaining a high level of safety over the years and for recognising the role of truck drivers in promoting safety at the port. While presenting awards to Mr. Abdullahi Kazeem, an external truck driver, and some employees of APM Terminals Apapa in recognition of their roles in promoting safe practices within the terminal, Jacob said: “APM Terminals Apapa will continue to constantly engage and train truck drivers on the importance of safety within the terminal and on the roads, which ultimately results in savings from insurance premiums.”