By Adedayo Akinwale The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has said that the Boko Haram insurgents Tuesday attacked its 330/132kV transmission substation at Molai in Maiduguri at about 5:30pm. The terrorists destroyed two Hilux vans and one vehicle belonging to a member of staff of TCN, while the insurgents made away with the third Hilux Van. Other items destroyed by the terror group included a Hiab truck, computer, monitor and printer in the control room. The windows of the control room and staff house were also shattered by gun shots. Its General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, in a statement Thursday said that during the attack, 2No Post Isolators Porcelain units were affected, though the cracks were however not too deep as to affect supply to the substation. He said: “The 330/132/33kV Molai Transmission Substation was completed and energised October 25th, 2018 and was also formally commissioned Wednesday, 13th February, 2019. The substation comprises 150MVA and 60MVA power transformers which feed Yola Disco customers in Maiduguri and environs. “The operator on duty did exceptionally well by opening the transmission lines from the substation and shutting down the station before quickly leaving the substation just before the insurgents reached the substation. After the incident, TCN engineers did a thorough check of the substation equipment before restoration on Wednesday, 8th May, 2019 at 9.31Hrs.” The TCN however commended the efforts of security operatives who have continued to make it possible for its operators to run the substation and appealed that more of them should be deployed in the area, to further boost the morale of workers who have been unrelenting in ensuring that electricity supply is sustained in Maiduguri and environs despite the risks. It added that in order to completely stabilise and modernise the grid, Nigeria must complete the on-going investment in grid expansion and rehabilitation, establish adequate spinning reserve and install well-functioning SCADA. The TCN noted that the Molai Substation had experienced attacks by insurgents in the past but this has not deterred TCN from ensuring that power is supplied to Maiduguri. The company also reiterated its commitment to implementing the Transmission Rehabilitation and Expansion Programme under which some level of investment and consequently stability has been achieved.