The President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, who listed the initiatives in a statement in Abuja on Sunday, said the Buhari administration was committed to finding drastic solutions to security challenges in the country. According to him, it is the constitutional duty and responsibility of government to safeguard lives and properties. He added: “These are no doubt times of great security challenges for our country, and the President  Buhari-led government is not leaving any stone unturned to restore sanity and calm.’’ “The Buhari administration remains committed to this, and despite recent spikes in the spate of crime and criminality, the evildoers will be beaten, and badly, too. “The ravening clouds can never be victorious. Soon, they shall no longer possess the sky.’’ Adesina, therefore, listed, for the record, some of the security initiatives taken between January and now, for the safety and security of Nigerians to include: “Operation Puff Adder (Nigerian Police),Operation HARBIN KUNAMA III (Nigerian Army) and Exercise Egwu Eke 3 (Nigerian Army) have all been launched in 2019, to complement the existing Operations Sharan Daji (launched in 2016 by the Nigerian Army) and Diran Mikiya (launched 2018 by the Nigerian Air Force). “All of these operations are focused on tackling banditry and criminality in the North West of Nigeria. Operation HARBIN KUNAMA 3 was launched on April 1  to ensure the complete defeat of the bandits fleeing military operations in Zamfara and escaping into Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Niger and Sokoto States.” Presidency said hundreds  of kidnappers and bandits had been arrested or killed since January, several camps/hideouts destroyed; and hundreds of hostages rescued. In a two-week operation in February (lasting from Feb 4 to Feb 14), 80 hostages were freed by the Nigerian Army, with 37 bandits killed. Aerial bombardments of bandits’ camps, the presidency said, have been intensified in recent months. A new Air Force Base – the 271 Nigerian Air Force Detachment (271 NAF Det) – was commissioned at Birinin Gwari in Kaduna State in May 2019, to complement the 207 Quick Response Group (QRG) established in Gusau, Zamfara State, in 2017. For the Nigerian Police, presidency said between January 2019 and the 1st week of May, 2019, a total of 270 suspected kidnappers, 275 suspected armed robbers, were arrested. It also said 105 assorted weapons plus a large cache of ammunition were recovered by the Nigerian Police within the  states of the North West and North Central Nigeria.       The Chinese citizens who were earlier kidnapped on 15th April, 2019 in Bobi, Niger State, were safely and successfully rescued from a forest in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State, following painstaking investigative efforts, including both air and ground surveillance. Two of the kidnappers died from injuries sustained during exchange of gun fire with the Police in the course of the rescue mission. Twenty-two other kidnap victims were rescued in Zamfara State and other parts of the country.  NIGERIAN ARMY: This has really contributed immensely to a peaceful security situation in the state. The suspects were dressed in military desert camouflage and robbing motorists along the road.  NIGERIAN AIR FORCE:  Some of the areas covered in the surveillance missions include Gonin Gora, Kajuru, Kujama, Kasuwar Maganin and surrounding settlements.  The air strikes are aimed at flushing out the bandits from their hideouts in Sububu, Rugu and Kagara Forests, amongst others, whilst ensuring the protection of the lives and properties of citizens in Northwest Nigeria. Some of the bandits fled across the border into Niger Republic. Some of the armed bandits who had fled their camps as a result of NAF’s earlier air strikes had relocated some logistics items, including fuel, motorcycles and local arms-making equipment, to another location within Kagara Forest.  This was achieved while the ATF was responding to a request for close air support by ground troops of Sector 7 Area of Responsibility ofOperation SHARAN DAJI, who had come into contact with armed bandits in Shinkafi Local Government Area (LGA).