Olusegun Adeniyi reasons it is time to legalise the drug Legalise it
Don’t criticise it
Legalise it, yeah yeah
And I will advertise it Some call it tamjee
Some call it the weed
Some call it marijuana
Some of them call it ganja Never mind, got to legalise it It’s good for the flu
Good for asthma
Good for tuberculosis
Even numara thrombosis Go to legalise it
Don’t criticise… –Peter Tosh, the late Jamaican reggae musician, in his 1976 solo album after leaving The Wailers When in the course of the 2019 presidential election campaigns, the publisher of Saharareporters and candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Mr Omoyele Sowore, said “we have to start taking care of our weed (Igbo), such that we can also contribute to the GDP of the world,” many Nigerians derided him. I felt at the time that Sowore had started a very important conversation we need to have if we must tap into what is fast becoming a global money spinner in which our country has a competitive advantage. In a Tweet from Thailand on Monday, Sowore got an endorsement to his idea from Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu who said he was in the Southeast Asian country to “study how cannabis can be of more advantage to the state and Nigeria at large just the way Thai government has done”, adding, “Cannabis is used for medical purposes; how can it be cultivated for specific purposes and not be abused?” Akeredolu, who was in Thailand with Muhammad Mustapha Abdallah, chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), said his state would derive economic benefits from tapping into the marijuana market: “We all know that Ondo State is the hot bed of cannabis cultivation in Nigeria. We know how to grow it and it thrives well in the sunshine state. With an estimated value of $145 billion in 2025, we would be short-changing ourselves if we failed to tap into the legal marijuana market. Our focus now is medical marijuana cultivation in controlled plantations under the full supervision of the NDLEA. I strongly implore the FG to take this seriously as it is a thriving industry that will create thousands of jobs for our youth and spur economic diversification.” Before I make my point, let me state that I have never smoked cigarette or cannabis and I am quite aware that in a country where hypocrisy is a national ideology and majority are moral policemen (regardless of how they live their lives), the idea of legalizing cannabis will be hard to sell. But in the world we now live in, it makes perfect sense to tap into the economic benefit of an aspect of marijuana use that has been in a global issue for a while and I commend Akeredolu for his foresight. Besides, even in our country, as Peter Tosh sang in his controversial album, “Doctors smoke it, Nurses smoke it, Judges smoke it, Even lawyer, too”. But I am not advocating for anybody to ‘smoke it’. Following the passage of a law in Canada legalising the recreational use of marijuana (which can now be grown, distributed, and sold anywhere in the country) last year, the UK authorities also pledged to review the use of medicinal cannabis which could lead to more prescriptions of drugs made from the plant although it would remain banned for recreational use. The Israeli parliament has also passed the medical cannabis exports law estimated to yield an annual $265m in tax income alone. In the United States, many states have since 2011 legalised its sale fuelling an industry that is now said to be worth $10 billion and employs 250,000 people in the country. “You’ve never seen anything quite like this,” says Jeffery Mascio, CEO of Cannabis One Holdings, a company that develops and markets cannabis products in Colorado, Washington and Nevada. “It’s a new industry that’s sprung up practically over-night.” At the instance of Mr Ehi Braimoh, I was in Port Harcourt last Thursday as keynote speaker at the 2019 annual conference of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN). In the panel discussion that followed my presentation, Mr Olufemi Awoyemi, the founder of Proshare who is never afraid to ‘shake tables’, said it was time Nigeria tapped into the huge medical marijuana market. During lunch, I had a chat with Awoyemi who said there is so much ignorance in our country on what exactly marijuana is. “For me, it is an agricultural product that can be put to many uses and offers many by-products which collectively must be harnessed, regulated and exploited for the benefit of all”, said Awoyemi who added that “It is a leaf that grows wild and naturally in at least six states of Nigeria where scale and size offer a compelling case for an agricultural economic zone.” The level of knowledge and awareness open to us today about marijuana, according to Awoyemi, were not available when the laws were made to criminalise it in many countries. But since then, research, information exchange and economic insights have shown that marijuana or cannabis has a myriad of health and beauty benefits if properly processed and applied, as we have also witnessed in Nigeria. “A common example which everyone can relate to, is found in the many female hair products in our shops and markets today, proudly advertising that they contain ‘Indian hemp’ to add strength and body to women’s hair. No one can recall any religious argument, stereotype or societal derision from such choices yet it represents the clearest irony and shift in thinking that was lost on us all”, Awoyemi said. Our fears, Awoyemi argues, need not interfere with our promise and I completely agree with him. But if Nigeria is to benefit from the enormous medical and economic advantages the agricultural product offers, he believes we need to enact new legislations that cover the whole ecosystem: trademarks, patents, intellectual property, weed planting, harvesting and shipping, tax laws, accounting standards, customs & excise rates, tariffs, environmental impact assessments, etc., and “we should do away with value destroying actions like burning products and farms which is akin to printing money and burning it”, Awoyemi said. With creative thinking, marijuana can earn for at least six states in the country more money than they currently receive from the federation account, generate a large number of direct and indirect jobs and create a competitive product value chain that is sustainable and profitable. The farms can easily be ring-fenced and confined to an export processing zone (EPZ) from which the product would be grown, harvested, processed into contract-determined specifications and packed for direct export abroad with supervision by officials of both the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and NDLEA. For that to happen, all the laws concerning cannabis use must be reviewed with the intention of modifying them to allow for the proper leveraging of what has become a key medical and economic resource. Adeniyi is Chairman, THISDAY Editorial Board