By Vanessa Obioha The ‘Ye’ crooner Burna Boy, Mr. Eazi and Teni the Entertainer have been announced as the nominees at this year’s BET Awards. Burna Boy whose musical career has been on a momentous leap since he released his third album ‘Outside’ last year was nominated in the Best International Act category. He will be competing alongside Mr. Eazi, South African Hip Hop rapper AKA, Dave and Giggs from the U.K, and Aya Nakamura and Dosseh from France. In the fan voted category of Best New International Act is Teniola Apata from Nigeria, Sho Madjodzi from South Africa, Headie One and Octavian from the UK and France’s Jokair and Nesly. The awards celebrate the brightest stars across music, television, film, sports, and philanthropy. In its nineteenth year, the BET Awards continues its reign as the ultimate platform showcasing the best and most beautiful aspects of the Black experience – celebrating not only the present and future of Black music, but also elevating the culture and being a driving force for social change. “The BET Awards is a powerful platform for celebrating and elevating black excellence from around the world,” said  Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director, BET International Viacom International Media Networks Africa  “We look forward to honouring this year’s Best International Act and Best New International Act during the BET Awards main and surround programming that will broadcast to a global audience.” BET Networks recognizes artists, entertainers, and athletes across 20 categories with the 2019 “BET Awards” nominations. The nominations are selected by BET’s Voting Academy, which is comprised of fans and an esteemed group of entertainment professionals in the fields of television, film, music, social media, digital marketing, sports journalism, public relations, and the creative arts. Internationally, the show will simulcast for the first-time on BET Africa at 1am WAT on June 24th. Continuing  its new tradition, BET will honour the Best International Act in-show, along with the viewer’s choice fan voted category Best New International Act during the live red-carpet pre-show.