Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the presentation of a leadership award to President Muhammadu Buhari by governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was a shameful endorsement of failure. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement yesterday said that the endorsement was the height of deception and a spat on the graves of victims of unrestrained killings and bloodletting in various parts of our nation. He added that the Buhari Presidency and the APC had chosen to engage in endless unprofitable celebrations in the safety of Aso Villa while Nigerians were left at the mercies of bandits, kidnappers, marauders and insurgents in their homes and workplaces. The main opposition party stressed that  solicited award was another failed image-laundering and botched endorsement by the Buhari Presidency, which was being confronted by the weight of public rejection for its failures and the rigging of the February 23, Presidential elections. Ologbondiyan stated: “The party says it is totally disgraceful that Mr. President’s handlers could conjure such scandalous whitewashing project to gloat on Nigerians at a time they (Nigerians) are extremely hurting over the prevalent economic hardship, hunger, disappointments, failures and humongous corruption that have become the hallmark of the Buhari administration. “Allowing themselves (APC Governors) to be used for such image laundering for President Buhari in the face of his failures to find solution for the killings and kidnappings in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Taraba, Adamawa, Kaduna, Katsina and other states of the federation, the APC governors have again exhibited their party’s unpardonable insensitivity and disdain for Nigerians. “It is disturbing that at a time genuine leaders are exerting themselves for solutions to the myriads of crisis plaguing our nation, those elected on the platform of the APC are busy playing to gallery and acting scripts while our nation continue to slide; the very reason Nigerians voted for Atiku Abubakar on February 23, as their preferred presidential candidate,” he added. The PDP spokesman counseled Buhari to end the circus at the Presidency and face the stark reality of the dejection, despondency and misery Nigerians have been subjected to due to his incompetence as well as insensitivity to the plight of the citizens.