Akinwale Akintunde Two businessmen, Emmanuel Anthony Nnan and John Paul Ejike, were Thursday remanded in prison custody for allegedly importing and selling substandard gas cylinders. Justice Saliu Saidu of the Federal High Court remanded the suspects following their arraignment on a five-count charge alongside their company, Star Master Electrical Co. Limited, by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). They however pleaded not guilty to the charge and were granted bail with the sum of N50 million. The court consequently adjourned until June 18, 2019 for their trial, and ordered their remand in prison custody pending the perfection of their bail terms. The prosecutor, Mr. Adeleke Olofindare, alleged that the defendants had committed the offences of forgery, importation and sale of substandard gas cylinder, which he said contravene the SON Act. A part of the charge reads: “That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1 close, 3rd Avenue Festac Town, Lagos; John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Limited of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo in Lagos respectively on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office on No. 3 Boma Road, Apapa, Lagos State, within the jurisdiction of this court, did conspire to make a false documents in writing knowing same to be false with intent that the false documents to wit; SON product certificate knowing same to be false with intent that the false document will be used as genuine and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 465 and punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code Act CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1 close, 3rd Avenue Festac Town, Lagos; John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Limited of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo in Lagos respectively on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office No. 3 Boma
Road Apapa, Lagos State, within the jurisdiction of this court did forged SON product registration certificate with intention of causing same to be believed to have been issued by SON and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 465 and punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code
Act CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “ That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan of Plot 18 32D, House 1 close, 3rd Avenue Festac Town, Lagos; John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Limited of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo in Lagos respectively on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office No. 3 Boma Road Apapa, Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this court, deal in and having in your possession imported gas cylinders which is not of quality which you represented it to be and thereby commit an offence punishable under Section 1 (18) (ii) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 .”