The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) said Wednesday that it is deeply saddened by the death on Tuesday night of two players of Nigeria Women Professional League club, Police Machine Female FC, who were killed by a hit-and-run Jeep driver that ran into about five persons in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. “It is with deep shock and sense of immense loss that we received the tragic news of the death of the players. It is a very, very sad situation for such young ladies to be cut down in their prime in such manner. “This is a tragedy of immense proportions. We are much grieved. Our hearts go out to the families of the players, Police Machine FC, the Nigeria Women Football League and the entire Nigerian football family. We pray that Almighty God will grant the departed players eternal rest and also comfort those they have left behind,” NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, said on Wednesday morning. Reports said the ladies, Aniebet Ekong and Glory Saturday were crushed by the vehicle as they left their team’s evening training session, with the team due to travel to Lokoja to participate in the Nigeria Women Premier League play-off competition. Another player who was hit by the trailer driver is said to be receiving treatment at a hospital in the Akwa Ibom State capital. Meanwhile, in a swift reaction, the board of the Nigeria Women Football League, to show due respect to the departed players, has announced the postponement, by one week, the kick-off of the Nigeria Women Pro-League Competition. This was contained in a letter to all the four participating clubs: Pelican Stars of Calabar, Moje Queens, Police Female Machine and Olori Babes. “Due to the sad incident that happened in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on October 1, 2019, where two players of the Police Female Machine FC lost their lives, the NWFL Pro-League 2018/2019 season earlier scheduled for between October 3 and October 7, 2019 in Lokoja, Kogi State has been postponed to between October 7 and 11at same venue.” 