The fresh Kogi West senatorial election involving Senator Dino Melaye of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Smart Adeyemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is to hold on November 16, according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC, in a statement signed by the Chairman of its Information and Voter Committee, Festus Okoye, said that the senate election would hold simultaneously with the Kogi governorship election. Okoye, INEC National Commissioner, in a statement made available to journalists yesterday in Abuja, said that another by-election for the Sabuwa State Constituency in Katsina State, had been slated for November 30. “The decision was taken at the commission’s meeting held on Monday,” the statement said. He said that the fresh election was sequel to the nullification of the Kogi West Senatorial District election conducted on February 23, by the Election Petitions Tribunal and its subsequent affirmation by the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal had upheld the ruling of the Election Petitions Tribunal which nullified the election of Melaye, following a suit filed by Adeyemi of the APC. The Appeal Court, on October 11, 2019, ordered INEC to conduct a fresh election within 90 days from the date of judgment with all those who participated in it as eligible candidates. Okoye appealed to the candidates and political parties to conduct issue-based campaigns. “We also enjoin stakeholders to eschew violence and avoid acts capable of creating apprehension or a sense of fear before, during and after the elections,’’ he said. Okoye also disclosed that following extensive consultations with stakeholders and a review of the security situation with the relevant security agencies, the Commission fixed November 30 for the conduct of bye-election in Sabuwa State Constituency, Katsina State. He recalled that the Katsina State House of Assembly, vide a letter with Reference Number KTSHA/PER/HON/l24/VOL.l/24, dated September 26, notified INEC of the death of Mustapha Abdullahi, who represented the constituency, and and subsequently declared the seat vacant. He said that the commission would issue the Notice of Election on October 23, while the conduct of party primaries would take place between October 24 and November 6. According to Okoye, the last day for the submission of personal particulars of candidates (form CF001), and the list of candidates (Form CFOO2), is Nov. 8. “The last day for the submission of names and addresses of polling agents is Nov. 15, while campaigns will end on Nov. 28,” he said.