By Emma Okonji Samsung has unveiled new members of the Galaxy A Series smartphones – the Galaxy A10s, A20s and A30s. These new devices offer upgrades to essential features, made even more powerful with more value for the new smartphones generation. Speaking at launch in Lagos recently, the Managing Director, Samsung Electronics West Africa, David Suh, said: “As a global technology leader, we are committed to providing meaningful innovations to our consumers. Galaxy A10s, A20s and A30s have been developed for young Africans who are looking for a great display, superior camera, long-lasting battery and fingerprint scanner. It’s a complete package of great looks and top performance.” Galaxy A10s – impressive device offers unprecedented value
“The new Galaxy A10s comes with a stunning 6.2-inch, HD+ Infinity-V Display. It provides an immersive visual experience to users binge-watching your favourite content. Additionally, addressing the need of today’s always-on generation, the Galaxy A10s is equipped with a powerful 4,000mAh battery that allows uninterrupted streaming, gaming and live broadcasting,”Suh said. Demonstrating the features of the smartphones, Head, Information Technology and Mobile (IM) at Samsung Electronics West Africa, Adetunji Taiwo, said: “Galaxy A10s comes with a dual rear camera setup to address the millennials’ need to capture moments on the go. The dual camera of the Galaxy A10s comprises a 13MP primary rear camera with F1.8 aperture and a 2MP depth camera. This allows users to capture beautiful shots where the focus is on the subject and noise from the background is blurred. Additionally, Galaxy A10s sports an 8MP front camera that consistently produces brighter and clearer selfies. The Galaxy A10s is also an excellent multitasker, thanks to the Octa-core processor under the hood. With enhanced security features such as fingerprint scanner and face unlock, the Galaxy A10s offers more peace of mind. The Galaxy A10s is available with 2GB of RAM and 32GB internal storage. There is also support for Micro SD cards up to 512GB. “Galaxy A20s is packed with triple rear camera, 15W fast-charging capability and a striking design to elevate the smartphone experience of young millennials and Gen Z.“Galaxy A20s has been developed to offer the Gen Z consumer a great display, superior triple camera and captivating design with a mirror-like finish. People are increasingly using their smartphones to share live interactions – capturing spontaneous photos, streaming live videos and connecting over shared experiences that are happening right now. Built to drive this evolution, the Galaxy A20s is packed with a compelling user experience for everyday lives.” According to Taiwo, the new Galaxy A30s features striking new designs, including a unique geometric pattern and futuristic holographic effect on the back. Available in three new colours, Prism Crush Black, Prism Crush White, and Prism Crush Violet, the sleek Galaxy A30s showcases a stylish look and feel.